# MATTHEW

## 9

1 Getting in a boat, he crossed over, and he went into his own hometown. 2 And they brought to him a paralytic, collapsed on a bed. And Jesus saw their faith and said to the paralytic, "Be healed, child. Your sins are forgiven." 3 And some of the scribes said among themselves, "This man blasphemes!" 4 And Jesus, seeing their concerns, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts? 5 For what is easier, to say 'Your sins are forgiven' or to say 'Arise and walk'? 6 But so that you may you see that the son of man has power on earth to forgive sins" - then he said to the paralytic, "Arise, pick up your bed, and go to your house." 7 And he arose and went to his house. 8 Seeing this, the crowd were afraid and marveled at God, who had given power to men to do such things.

9 And Jesus went on his way, he saw a man named Matthew, sitting in the customs-house, and he said to him, "Follow me." And he stood up and followed Jesus. 10 Jesus was sitting at the table in his house, and many tax collectors and sinners were with Jesus and his disciples. 11 Seeing this, the Pharisees said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?" 12 Hearing them, he said, "The healthy have no need of a doctor, but the sick. 13 Go and learn what this means: 'I desire mercy and not sacrifice'. For I did not come to call the righteous, but the sinners."

14 Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Ourselves and the Pharisees fast, but why do your disciples not fast?" 15 And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding-guests mourn while the groom is with them? The day will come when the groom is carried away from them, and then they will fast." 16 No puts patches an old cloth with an un-shrunk patch, for the patch will pull apart from the garment, and it will create a tear. 17 No one puts new wine in old wine skin; otherwise, the wine skin will tear, and wine will pour out, and the wine skin will be destroyed. But put new wine in new wine skins, and both will be preserved.

18 When he had said these things to them, a ruler came to them and knelt down and said, "My daughter has died, but if you go to her and lay a hand on her, she will live." Jesus and his disciples arose and followed him. 20 And a woman who had been bleeding for twelve years came up behind him and touched the hem of his clothes, 21 for she said to herself, "If only I would touch his robe I will be saved." 22 Jesus turned and, seeing her, said, "Cheer up, daughter, for your faith has saved you." And the woman was healed from that moment on. 23 When Jesus came to the house of the ruler, he saw a flute-player and a crowd making noise, 24 he said, "Go back, for the girl is not dead, but is sleeping." And they laughed at him. 25 When the crowd was thrown out, he went to the girl, and reached out his hand to her, and the little girl was awakened. 26 And the story of the girl spread to all of the land. 

27 As they passed along from there, two blind men followed Jesus, shouting and saying, "Be merciful to us, son of David." 28 Going to the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, "Do you believe that I am able to do this?" They said to him, "Yes, Lord." 29 Then he touched their eyes and said, "According to your faith let it be done to you." 30 Their eyes were opened, and Jesus rebuked them, saying, "Take care that no one finds out about it." 31 And going out, the men made known throughout all the land what happened.

31 When he went out, they brought to him a demon-possessed man who could not speak. 33 When the demon was thrown out, the man spoke. And the crowd were amazed, saying, "No one talks like this in all of Israel." 34 Meanwhile, the Pharisees said, "he throws out demons by the prince of demons."

35 Jesus went around to all of the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and healing every sickness and weakness. 36 Seeing the crowd, he was was deeply moved concerning them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep who did not have a shepherd. 37 Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest is great, but the workers are few. 38 Therefore pray to the lord of the harvest that he would send workers for his harvest."