# MATTHEW

## 16

1 The Pharisees and Saducees, going to Jesus to test him, asked him for a sign to show them. 2 He answered them, "When it is evening, you say, the weather will be fair, for sky is fiery red. 3 And in the morning you say, it will be stormy today, for the sky glows red and gloomy. On the one hand you know how to interpret the look of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. 4 An evil and adulterous generation is longing for a sign, but a sign will not be given to them, except the sign of Jonah," so he left them.

5 When the disciples came to the other side, they had forgotten to bring bread. 6 Jesus said to them, "Look out for the yeast of the Pharisees and the Saducees." 7 They debated among themselves, saying, "We did not bring bread." 8 Knowing that they were arguing, Jesus said, "Why are you arguing among yourselves? Because you have no bread? You have such little faith. 9 Do you still not understand? Do you remember the five loaves that fed the five thousand, and how many baskets were gathered? 10 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets were leftover? 11 How do you not understand that I did not speak about bread to you? Beware the yeast of the Pharisees and Saducees. 12 Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teachings of the Pharisees and Saducees.

13 When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philipi, he asked his disciples, "Who do people say the son of man is?" 14 They said, "Some say John the Baptist, others Elijah, and others Jeremiah of one of the prophets." 15 He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" 16 Simon Peter said, "You are the Christ, the son of the living God." 17 Jesus answered, "You are blessed, Simon Bar-Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven. 18 And I say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hell will not overpower it. 19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you tie up on earth will be tied up in heaven, and whatever you let loose on earth will be let loose in heaven. 20 Then he instructed his disciples to tell no one that he is the Christ.

21 From that time, Jesus Christ began to point out to his disciples that it is necessary for him to go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and the high-priests and the scribes, and to be killed, and on the third day to rise again. 22 Peter took him aside and criticized him, "Let it not be like that for you, Lord! This will not happen to you." 23 But Jesus turned and said to Peter, "Back off, Satan! You are trying to trip me up, because you are not thinking about the things of God, but about the things of man."

24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, "If anyone wishes to come after me, let him deny himself, and take hold of his cross, and follow me. 25 For anyone who wishes to save his life will lose it, but he who loses his life because of me will find it. 26 For what benefit does it offer a man if he gains the whole world and loses his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? 27 For the son of man is about to come in the glory of his father with his angels, and then he will give to each according to what they have done. 28 Truly, I say to you that there are some standing here who will not have a taste of death until they see the son of man coming in his kingdom."