# MATTHEW

## 18

1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus and said, "Who among us is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" 2 And he called a child and stood him in the middle of them. 3 He said, "Truly, I say to you, if you do not turn and become like children, you will not enter into the kingdom of heaven. 4 Therefore whoever humbles himself like this child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Anyone whoever receives one of these little children in my name, receives me. 6 And whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it will be better for him to have a mill-stone hung around his neck, and for him to be plunged into the depth of the sea. 7 Woe to the world for temptations! For temptations must come, but woe to anyone through whom the temptations come. 8 If your hand or your foot cause you to stumble, lop it off and throw it away from you. For it is better for you to go through life limping or lame than having two hands and two feet and being thrown into fire for eternity. 9 And if you eye trips you up, pluck it out and throw it away. It is better to go through life with one eye than with two eyes, but being thrown into the fires of Hell.

10 "See to it that you do not look down upon one of these little ones, for I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of the father who is in heaven. 12 What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them wanders away, does not he not leave the ninety-nine on the hill and go in search of the one who wandered away? 13 And if he happens to find it, I say to you truly that he celebrates more that the one is near him than that the ninety-nine did not wander off. 14 So it is not the will of my father who is in heaven to lose one out of these little ones. 

15 "If your brother sins against you, go and bring your concerns to his attention, just you and him alone. 16 If he does not listen, bring along one or two people with you, so that 'every charge will be settled by the testimony of two or three witnesses'. 17 If he does not listen to you, tell the church, and if he does not listen even to the church, let him be as an outsider or a tax-collector. 18 For truly I say to you, whatever you tie up on earth will be tied up in heaven, and whatever you let loose on earth will be let loose in heaven. 19 Again I say to you that if two of you are in harmony on earth about anything they ask, it will occur for them by my father in heaven. 20 For if two or three are gathered in my name, I am there in the middle of them."

21 Then Peter came to Jesus and said, "Lord, How many times should I forgive my brother when he sins? Seven?" 22 Jesus said to him, "Not just seven times, but seventy times seven." 

23 "Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. 24 When he began to settle up, a servant was brought to him that owed him ten thousand talents. 25 And since he could not pay, the master ordered him to be sold along with his wife and his children and everything that he had. 26 The servant fell down on his face and begged him, 'Bear with me, and I will pay it all back to you.' 27 Deeply moved, the master of the servant let him off, and the debt was forgiven. 28  As he left, the servant came across one of his fellow-servants who owed him one hundred denarii. He strangled him and shouted at him, 'Give me what you owe!' 29 Falling down on his face, the servant asked him, 'Bear with me, and I will pay it back.' 30 He did not want to help, so he took him away to the jail until the debt was paid off. 31 When his fellow-servants saw the things that had happened, they were terribly upset, and they went to the master and explained to him everything that happened. 32 Then his master summoned him and said to him, 'Evil servant! I forgave you everything you owe, since you asked me, now it is not necessary for you to have mercy on your fellow-servant, as I had mercy on you?' 34 His master was angry and gave him over to the torturers until his entire debt was paid back. 35 Likewise my father will do to each of you unless you forgive your brother from your heart."