# MATTHEW

## 14

1 At that time, Herod the ruler heard about the fame of Jesus, 2 and he said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead, and that is why these powers are at work in him." 3 Herod had seized John and tied him up and put him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 4 Because John said to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her." 5 Wishing to kill him, he was afraid of the mob, because they regarded him as a prophet. 6 But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced for Herod in front of everyone and pleased him, 7 so that he swore to give her whatever she asked for. 8 Being led on by her mother, she said, "Give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter." 9 The king was distressed, but because of his sworn promise and his companions, he ordered it to be given to her. 10 He sent word and John was beheaded in prison. 11 And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and it was brought to her mother.

12 John's disciples went to him and lifted the corpse and buried him, and went to Jesus and told him what had happened. 13 When Jesus heard, he went back to the wilderness in a boat by himself, but when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities. 14 And coming out, he saw a great crowd, and he was deeply moved with pity for them and he healed their sick. 15 When it had become late in the day, the disciples came to him and said, "This place is a wilderness, and the hours has already passed by. Send the crowds off, so that they may go away to the villages and buy food for themselves." 16 Jesus said to them, "There is no need for them to leave; give them something to eat." 17 They said to him, "We do not have anything besides five loaves and two fish." 18 And he said, "Bring them to me." 19 And commanded the crowd to sit down on the pasture, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up and prayed to heaven, and he broke the bread, and gave it to the disciples, and the disciples gave it to the crowd. 20 And everyone ate as much as they wanted, and they took up twelve baskets of broken pieces that were left over. 21 And those who ate were five thousand men, in addition to the women and children.

22 And suddenly he forced the disciples to get into a boat and go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the crowds home. 23 And when he had sent the crowds off, he went up to the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was alone there. 24 But the ship was already a long way from the land, pounded by waves, for the wind was blowing against them. 25 In the fourth watch of the night, he came to them, walking on the sea. 26 The disciples saw him walking on the sea and they were in an uproar, saying, "It is a ghost!" And they shook from fear. 27 Just then Jesus said to them, "Take heart! It is me. Do not fear." 28 Peter answered him, "Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water." 29 Jesus said, "Come." Stepping out of the boat, Peter walked on the water and came to Jesus. 30 But seeing the wind, he was afraid, and began to sink and he croaked, "Lord, save me!" 31 Just then Jesus stretched out his hand and took hold of him and said to him, "You have such little faith. Why did you doubt?" 32 And returning to the boat, the wind calmed. 33 In the boat they fell down and worshiped him, saying, "Truly, you are the son of God."

34 When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret. 35 And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent him off to all of the surrounding regions, and they brought to him all those who were sick, 36 and they called on him to simply touch the hem of his robe, and all who he touched were saved.