# MATTHEW

## 20

1 "The kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard. 2 When he had agreed with his workers on a wage of one denarius per day, he sent them off to the vineyard. 3 And leaving at the third hour, the man saw other idle workers standing around, 4 and he said to them, 'Come to my vineyards, and I will pay you what is fair,' 5 and they went out. Again he left at the sixth and also the ninth hour, and he he did the same thing. 6 At the eleventh hour, he found other workers standing around, and he said to them, "Why are you standing here idle all day?" 7 They said to him, "No one hired us out." He said, "Come to my vineyard." 8 When it became evening, the master of the vineyard said to his secretary, "Call the workers and give them their pay, starting with the last and then on to the first." 9 Those who came at the eleventh hour took a denarius. 10 But those who came first thought they would receive more, but also only received a denarius. 11 Taking it, they grumbled to the master of the house, saying, 12 "Those who came last worked just one hour, but you have made them equal to us who had to handle the burden of the day and the burning heat." 13 He answered one of them, "Friend, I am not cheating you. Did you not agree with me on one denarius? 14 Take what's yours and go. I want to give to the late arrivals the same as I gave to you. 15 Is it not permissible for me to do what I want in my affairs? Or do you regret my generosity? 16 In just this way, the last will be first, and the first will be last."

17 As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he pulled the twelve aside by themselves, and on the road he said to them, 18 "Look, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the son of man will be handed over to the high priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death. 19 They will give him over to the outsiders to be mocked and whipped and crucified, but in three days he will rise up."

20 Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, kneeling before him and bringing a request. 21 He said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Say the word that in your kingdom my two sons will sit at your right hand and at your left." 22 Jesus answered her, "You do not know what you have asked. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink?" They said to him, "We are able." 23 He said to them, "You will drink my cup, but it is not up to me who sits at my right and my left, but it is for those for whom my father has prepared it." 24 When the ten heard this, they were irritated with the two brothers. 25 But Jesus summoned them and said, "Do you not know that the rulers of the outsiders dominate them, and their great ones rule over them, 26 but it will not be like this among you. But whoever wishes to be the greatest among you will be a servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you will be a slave. 28 In the same way, the son of man came to you not to be served, but to serve, and to the give his life as a ransom for many."

29 As he went out from Jericho, a great crowd followed him. 30 And when two blind men who had been sitting on the road heard that Jesus was passing by, they shouted, "Lord, have mercy on us, son of David!" 31 The crowd told them to be quiet, but they shouted even louder, "Lord, have mercy on us, son of David!" 32 And when Jesus heard them, he said, "Whatever you want, I will do." 33 They said to him, "Lord, open our eyes." 34 Jesus was deeply moved, so he touched their eyes, and immediately they could see, and they followed him.