# MATTHEW

## 22

1 Again Jesus spoke to them in parables and said, 2 "The kingdom of heaven is like a king, who is preparing a wedding feast for his son. 3 He sent his servants to call for those he invited to the wedding, 3 but they did not want to come. 4 Again he sent other servants, saying, 'Tell the invitees, "Look, I have prepared the very best, the oxen and the veal have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding."' 5 But they did not care and went away, one to his field, one to his business, 6 and the rest overpowered the servants and committed atrocities and killed them. 7 The king was furious, and he sent his armies, and completely destroyed those murderers and blew up their city. 8 Then he said to his slaves, 'The wedding feast is ready, but the invitees were not worthy. 9 Go out into the alleys and whoever you find there, invite them to the wedding.' 10 The servants went out to the streets and gathered everyone they found, evil people and good people, the wedding hall was filled up.

11 "The king came in to look at the guests, and he saw there a man who did not have proper clothing. 12 He said to him, 'Friend, how did you come here without proper clothing?' And he was silenced. 13 Then the king said to his servants, 'Tie up his feet and hands and throw him out to the outer darkness, where there is weeping and grinding of teeth.' 14 For many are called, but few are chosen."

15 Then the Pharisees came and plotted together how they might trap him in his words. 16 They sent to him their students, along with Herodians, and they said to him, "Teacher, we know that you are true and that you teach the way of God honestly, and you do not care what people think, because you do not see the appearances of men. 17 Tell us, what do you think? It is acceptable to give taxes to Caesar or not?" 18 Jesus knew their evil plans and said, "Why do you test me, hypocrites? 19 Show me the coin that you pay taxes with." And they brought to him a denarius. 20 He said to them, "Whose image is inscribed on it?" 21 They said to him, "Caesar." Then he said to them, "Give to Caesar the things that belong to Caesar, and give to God the things that belong to God." 22 When they heard this they were amazed, and they went away.

23 On the same day, the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him and said, "Teacher, Moses said, 'If anyone dies without children, his brother should marry the widow and raise her children.' 25 There once were seven brothers. And the first married and then died, and since he had no children, his wife went to his brother. 26 And the same thing happened to the second, and the third, and so on, 27 until the seventh. After all of this, the woman died. 28 In the resurrection, whose wife of the seven will the woman be, for all of them had her?" 29 Jesus answered them, "Why do you mislead people? Do you not know the scriptures or the power of God? 30 For in the resurrection they will neither marry, nor be given in marriage, but they will be as the angels in heaven. 31 Do you not know the word of God concerning the resurrection from the dead, which says, 32 'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? Is God the God of the living or the God of the dead?" 33 When they heard him, the crowd was astounded at his teaching.

34 When the Pharisees had heard how Jesus had shut up the Sadducees, they met together. 35 One of them, a lawyer asked Jesus a question, testing him. 36 "Teacher, which of the commandments in the law is the greatest?" 37 He said to him, "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.' This is the first commandment, 39 and the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' 40 All of the law and the prophets hang from these two commands. 41 When the Pharisees gathered together, Jesus asked them, 42 "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They said to him, "The son of David." 43 He said to them, "How then did David in the spirit call him Lord, saying,:

> 44 The Lord said to my Lord,
> sit on my right hand,
> until I put your enemies under your feet.

45 "If David called him Lord, how is he his son?" 46 And none of them could say a word. No one dared to ask him anything else the rest of the day. 