# MATTHEW

## 23

1 Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and his disciples: 2 "The scribes and the Pharisees sit on the seat of Moses, 3 so do and pay attention to whatever they tell you, but do not do the things that they do, for they do not do as they say. 4 They tie up heavy burdens and pile them onto people's shoulders, but they are not willing to move a finger. 5 For all the works they do so that people will see them, for they enlarge their phylacteries, and they have giant fringes, 6 and they do love to sit at the head of the table at feasts and the synagogue, 7 and being greeted in the marketplace and called 'Rabbi' by men. 8 But you are not to be called 'Rabbi', for you have one teacher, and you all are brothers. 9 Also, you are not to be called 'Father' on earth, for you have one heavenly father. 10 Neither call yourselves teachers, for you have one teacher, who is the Christ. 11 But the greatest of you will be your servant. 12 Whoever elevates himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be elevated. 

14 "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, because you shut up the kingdom of heaven from people's faces. You have not entered it, nor do you allow those who desire it to enter it. 

15 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, for you travel across sea and land to make a single convert, but when he becomes a convert, you make him two times the child of hell that you are.

16 "Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he has made an oath.' 17 Blind fools, what is better, the gold, or the temple that consecrates the gold? 18 So whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the sacrifice on the altar, he has made an oath. 19 Blind ones! Which is better, the sacrifice or the altar that consecrates the sacrifice? 20 Therefore whoever swears by the altar swears by it and everything on it, 21 and he who swears by the temple swears by it and everything housed inside of it. 22 And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and everything that sits upon it.

23 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, because you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and you have left behind the weightier parts of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. It is necessary to do these things, and not to forget about the others. 24 Blind guides, straining the gnat and swallowing the camel.

25 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, because you scrub the outside of the cup and the plate, but the inside they are full of greed and laziness. 26 Blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup, so that the outside may also be clean.

27 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, for you are like white-washed tombs, because on the outside you appear beautiful, but on the inside you you are full of dead bones and filthiness. 28 In this way you appear outwardly to be righteous, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.

29 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you are hypocrites, for you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments for the righteous, saying, "If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have participated in shedding the blood of the prophets. 31 Thus you bear witness against yourselves that you are the sons of the murderers of prophets. 32 And you fill up the measure of your fathers. 33 Snakes, a litter of vipers, how are you to escape the judgment of Hell? 34 That is why I have sent you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you have killed and crucified, and other you have whipped in your synagogues and chased out of your cities, 35 so that on you will come all of the righteous blood shed on this earth, from the blood of Abel the righteous until the blood of Zechariah son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. 36 Truly I say to you, all these things will happen to this generation.

37 "Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills its prophets and stones the ones I sent to it! How often have I wished to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you do not want me to. 38 Look, your house has been forsaken. 39 For I say to you, you will not see me again, until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'"