# MATTHEW

## 24

1 Jesus left the temple and went along, and the disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple. 2 He said to them, "Do you not see all of this? I tell you the truth, not one stone will be standing on top of another stone that will not be destroyed."

3 As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately and said, "Tell us when these things will happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the consummation all things?" 4 Jesus answer them, "Pay attention so that no one misleads you, 5 for many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and many will be tricked. 6 You will hear about wars and rumors of wars; look, and do not cry out, for it is has to happen, but it is not yet the end. 7 Nation will rise up against nation and king against king, and famines and earthquakes here and there. 8 All these things are the beginnings of child-birth. 9 Then they will turn you over to oppression and will kill you, and you will be hated by all the world for my name's sake. 10 Then many will stumble and betray each other and hate each other. 11 And many false prophets will rise up and trick many people. 12 Because of the increase of anarchy, the love of many of them will freeze up, 13 but the one who holds steady to the end will be saved. 14 And the gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the entire world, as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. 

15 "When therefore you see the horror of destruction that the Prophet Daniel spoke of, standing in the sacred place (let the reader understand), 16 then everyone in Judea will flee for the hills. 17 Do not let the one who is on the top of the house go into the house to get their things, 18 and do not let the one who is in the field turn around to grab his cloak. 19 Woe to anyone who is pregnant or nursing in those days! 20 Pray that your flight will not be in winter or on the Sabbath. 

21 "For there will be great oppression, the likes of which has not happened from the days of old until now; nothing comparable will ever happen. 22 If those days were not cut short, not a single person would be saved, but for the sake of the chosen ones, those days will be cut short. 23 Then if anyone says to you, 'Look here, the Christ!', or 'Look over there!', do not believe them. 24 For sham Christs and false prophets will pop up, and they will give great signs and wonders so as to mislead - if possible - the chosen ones. 25 I have told you in advance, 26 therefore, if anyone says to you, 'Look, he is in the desert', do not go out there. Or if they say, 'Look, in the inner rooms,' do not believe them. 27 For just as lightning comes from the east, and flashes all the way to the west, in the same way the coming of the son of man will occur. 28 For wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.

29 At the same time as the oppression of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of heaven will shake. 30 Then the son of the son of man will appear in the sky, and every tribe of the earth and be mourn, and they will see the son of man coming on the clouds in the sky with might and great splendor. 31 He will send his angels with enormous trumpets and they will gather together his chosen ones from the four winds, from one end of heaven to another.

32 From the fig-tree you have learned the parable: when its branch is tender and it has produced leaves, you will know that the harvest is near. 33 It's just the same for you: whenever you see all of these things, you will know that the harvest is imminent. 34 I tell you the truth: this generation will not pass away until all these things happen. 35 The heavens and the earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 36 Concerning these times, no one knows the hour, not the angels of heaven, nor the son, but only the father alone. 37 For the coming of the son of man will be like the time of Noah, 38 for as in those days before the flood, people ate and drank, were married, until the day when Noah went into the ark, 39 and they did not know until the flood came and everything started happening. It will be like that with the coming of man. 

40 "Then two people will be in a field: one will be taken and one left behind. 41 Two women will be grinding wheat at the mill: one will be taken and one left behind. 42 Be awake, therefore, because you do not know on what day the son of man will come. 43 But know this, that if the master of the house knew when the thief would come, he would be awake and he would not let his house be broken into. 44 Be ready for this, because you do not know the hour that the son of man will come. 

45 "Who then is this wise and faithful servant who his master has set over the household, to give them food at the proper time? 46 Blessed is the servant who the master will find doing these things when he comes. 47 I tell you the truth, that he will set him over everything the master owns. 48 But if a bad servant says to himself, 'My master is taking his time,' 49 and he begins to beat up his fellow servants, and eats and drinks with drunks, 50 the master of that servant will come on a day he does not expect and at an hour that he does not know. 51 And he will cut him in half and will put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and grinding of teeth.