# MATTHEW

## 25

1 "Then the kingdom of heaven is like ten virgins, who take their lamps and go out to meet the bridegroom. 2 Five of there were fools, and five were wise, 3 for the fools took their lamps, but did not take any oil. 4 But the wise ones took containers of oil with their lamps. 5 When the bridgegroom delayed, everyone became tired and fell asleep. 6 In the the middle of the night, a shouting rang out: 'Look: the bridegroom! Come out and meet him.' 7 Then all of the virgins got up and trimmed their lamps, 8 and the fools said to the wise ones, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.' 9 The wise ones answered, 'There is not enough for our lamps and yours; rather, go to the market and buy some for youselves.' 10 When they left to buy it, the bridgegroom came, and the ones who were ready went inside with him to the feast, and the door was shut. 11 Later on, the other virgins came and said, 'Lord, lord, open for us!' 12 He answered them, 'I tell you the truth, I do not know you.' 13 Therefore be ready, because you do not know the day or the hour.

14 "For it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and handed over his possessions to them. 15 To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one talent, to each according to his ability, and he went abroad. 16 When the man had left, the one who had five talents immediately put them to work for him and gained five more. 17 Likewise, the one who had two earned two more. 18 But the one who had one talent dig a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. 19 After a long time, the master came to his servants and settled up with them. 20 The one who had five talents came and brought to him five other talents, saying, 'Master, you gave five talents to me; I have earned five talents more.' 21 His master said to him, 'Good job, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things, I will place you over many things. Come into your master's joy.' 22 And one who had two talents came to him and said, 'Master, you gave me two talents; I have earned two talents more.' 23 His master said to him, 'Good job, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things, I will place you over many things. Come into your master's joy.' 24 Then the one who had one talent came to him an dsaid, 'Lord, I know that you are a hard man, reaping where you have not sown and harvesting where you have not planted. 25 Being afraid of you I went out and hid your talent in the field. Here is what is yours.' 26 His master answered him, 'You evil and timid servant, did you know that I reap where I have not sown and harvest where I have not planted? 27 Then you should have dropped off my money with the bankers, and when I came I could gain what is mine with interest.' 28 Therefore take a talent from him and give it to the one who has ten talents. 29 For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will overflow; to the one who does not have, what he has will be taken away from him. 30 And throw the useless servant into outer darkness, where there is weeping and grinding of teeth.

31 "When the son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels are with him, then he will sit at his throne of glory, 32 and all nations will be gathered together in front of him, 32 and he will separate them from each other, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 33 And he will sit the sheep at his right hand, but the goats on his left. 

34 Then the king will say those on his right, 'Come, you who are blessed by my father, and inherit the kingdom which has been prepared for you from the foundation of the earth. 35 For I was hungry, and you gave me food; I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and you let me in; 36 I was naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me.' 

37 Then the righteous ones answered him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and fed you, or thirsty and gave you something to drink, or 38 when did we see you as a stranger and took you in, or naked and clothed you, 39 or when did we see you sick or in prison and we came to you?' 

40 The king answered them, 'Truly I say to you, whatever you do to the lowest of the low, you have done it to me.' 

41 Then he said to those who were on his left, 'Get away from me, cursed ones, to the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. 42 For I was hungry and you gave me no food; I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink; 43 I was a stranger and you did not let me in; I was naked and you did not clothe me, I was sick and in prison and you did not visit me.' 

44 Then they answered him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we did not take care of you?' 45 He answered them, 'Truly I say too you, whatever you did not do to the lowest of the low, you did not do it to me.' 46 And they will depart from him to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life.