# MATTHEW

## 28

1 After the Sabbath, toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb. 2 And a great earthquake occurred, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and rolled away the stone and sat on it. 3 The appearance of the angel was like lightning and his clothing was white as snow. 4 Those who were guarding the tomb shook with fear and became like corpses. 5 The angel to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. 5 He is not here, for he has risen from the dead, as he said he would. 6 Come, see the place where he lay. 7 Now go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and he has gone ahead of you to Galilee, you will see him there. I have told you this."

8 Quickly they went out from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell his disciples. 9 But Jesus met them saying, "Be glad!" And they came up and grabbed his feet and worshiped him. 10 Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid, come tell my brothers so that can depart to Galilee; they will see me there." 

11 While they were on the way, some of the guards went to the city and told the high priests everything that happened. 12 When they had gathered together with the elders, they devised a plan and gave a sufficient sum of money to the guards, 13 saying, "Say that his disciples came at night and stole him while we were asleep. 14 And if the ruler hears about this, we we will satisfy him and make sure you are not in trouble." 15 They took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.

16 The eleven disciples departed to Galilee, to the mountain that Jesus directed them to. 17 When they saw him they bowed down, but some doubted. 18 Jesus came to them and said, "All power in heaven and in earth has been given to me; 19 therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the father and of the son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 and teaching them to observe everything which I have commanded you. And I am with you every day, until the consummation of the age." 