# MATTHEW

## 1

1 The genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham: 2 Abraham's son was Isaac, Isaac's son was Jacob, Jacob's son was Judah and his brothers, 3 Judah and Tamar had Perez and Zarah, Perez's son was Hezron, Hezron's son was Ram, 4 Ram's son was Amminadab, Amminadab's son was Nashon, Nashon's son was Salmon, 5 Salmon's and Rahab had Boaz, Boaz and Ruth had Obed, Obed's son was Jesse, 6 and Jesse's son was King David. 

David and Uriah's wife had Solomon, 7 Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Rehoboam's son was Abijah, Abijah's son was Asaph, Asaph's son was Jehoshaphat, 8 Jehoshaphat's son was Joram, Joram's son was Uzziah, 9 Urriah's son was Jotham, Jotham's son was Ahaz, Ahaz's son was Hezekiah, 10 Hezekiah's son was Manasseh, Manasseh's son was Amos, Amos's son was Josiah, 11 Josiah's sons were Jechoniah and his brothers. That brings us up to the time when the Jews were exiled to Babylon.

12 After the Babylonian exile, Jechoniah's son was Shealtiel, Shealtiel's son was Zerubbabel, 13 Zerubbabel's son was Abiud, Abiud's son was Eliakim, Eliakim's son was Azor, 14 Azor's son was Zadok, Zadok's son was Achim, Achim's son was Eliud, 15 Eliud's son was Eleazar, Eleazar's son was Matthan, Matthan's son was Jacob, 16 and Jacob's son was Joseph, the husband of Mary, and Mary gave birth to Jesus, who is called the Christ.

17 So there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, and also fourteen from David to the Babylonian exile, and fourteen more from the Babylonian exile until Christ.

18 The birth of Jesus Christ happened like this:

When Jesus's mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, but before they had had sex, Mary realized she was pregnant by the Holy Spirit. 19 Mary's husband Joseph, who was an honorable man, did not want to embarrass her, so he decided to break off the engagement quietly. 20 As he thought it over, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream saying, "Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to marry her, for her pregnancy is of spiritual origin. 21 She will give birth to a son, and his name will be Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins." 22 All these things happened so that the word of the Lord would be fulfilled.  As the prophets said:

> 23 "The virgin will give birth to a son, and they will call him Immanuel," which is translated God with us.

24 When Joseph woke up, he did as the angel of the Lord told him to and married her. 25 But he did not have sex with Mary until she had a son, and they called him Jesus.