# MATTHEW

## 2

1 Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days when King Herod was king, and at that time sages from the East came to Jerusalem saying, 2 "Where is the newborn King of the Jews?  We saw a star in the east and came to honor him."

3 King Herod, hearing this, was unsettled, and all of Jerusalem with him, 4 so bringing together all of the high priests and scholars, he asked them where the Christ would be born. 5 They said to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for according to the writings of the prophets:

> 6 And you, Bethlehem, land of Judea,
> You are not the least among the rulers of Judea.
> For from you will come a leader
> who will shepherd my people Israel.

7 Then Herod, secretly gathering the sages, ascertained from them the precise time of the appearance of the star. 8 And when he sent them off to Bethlehem, he said, "Go and find the child, and when you have found him let me know, so that I may come and honor him as well." 9 After they heard the King, they went out, and a star appeared in the east, leading them on, and the star settled over the place where the child was staying. 10 Seeing the star, they celebrated with much joy. 11 And going to the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they collapsed and worshiped him. They opened the treasures they brought to him as gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. 12 And being advised in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route.

13 After the sages went back, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, "When you wake up, take your child and wife and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you, for Herod is going to look for the child to kill him." 14 Getting up, he took his child and wife by night and left to Egypt. They stayed there until the death of Herod, 15 so that the word of the Lord would be fulfilled, as the prophets said, "Out of Egypt I called my son."

16 Then Herod, seeing that he had been tricked by the sages, became enraged, and he sent for and killed all the male children in Bethlehem less than two years old, according to the time ascertained by the sages. 17 Then the word of prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled when he said:

> 18 A voice is heard in Rama,
> Weeping and loud protests,
> Rachel crying out for her children,
> and she is not willing to be comforted, for they are gone.

19 When Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream in Egypt, 20 saying, "When you wake up, take your child and your wife and go to Israel, for those who were trying to kill your son are dead. 21 When he arose, he took his child and his wife and went to Israel. 22 Hearing that Archilaus was ruler of Judea after his father Herod, he was frightened to go there. Having been warned in a dream he went to the region of Galilee, 23 and he went there and settled in the city called Nazareth, so that the word which was spoken by the prophet would be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. 