# MATTHEW

## 4

1 Then Jesus was lead to the wilderness by the Spirit, to be challenged by the devil. 2 And after fasting for forty days and nights, he was starving. 3 Coming to him, the tempter said to him, "If you are the son of God, speak so that the stones may become bread." 4 Replying, Jesus said, "It is written, 'man does not live by bread alone, but by every word from the mouth of God.'" 

5 Then the devil took him to the holy city, and he perched him on the highest point of the temple, 6 and he said to Jesus, "If you are the son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written that 'he will command his angels on your behalf', and 'they will lift you up in their hands, never will you strike your foot on a stone.'" 7 Jesus said to him, "Again, it is written, 'you shall not tempt the Lord God.'"

8 The devil took him to an tall mountain, and he pointed out all the kingdoms of the world, and their splendor. 9 And he said, "I will give you all of this if you fall down and worship me." 10 Then Jesus said to him, "Back off, Satan, for it is written, 'you will worship your Lord God, and serve him alone.'" 11 Then the devil sent him away, and the angels came to him and tended to him.

12 When Jesus heard that John had been arrested, he departed to Galilee, 13 and leaving Nazareth, he settled in seaside Capernaum, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali, 14 so that the word of the prophet according to Isaiah would be fulfilled:

> 15 Land of Zebulun and Naphtali,
> road to the sea, beyond the Jordan 
> Galilee of the Outsiders, 
> 16 The people sitting quietly in darkness
> have seen a great light,
> and to them who are sitting quietly in the place and shadow of the sea 
> a light has dawned.

17 Starting at that time, Jesus preached, saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is imminent."

18 Walking alongside the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew, Simon's brother, throwing their fishing nets into the sea. 19 And he said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of people." 20 Right away, they got rid of their nets and followed him. 21 And heading out from the place, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with their father repairing their nets, and he called them. 23 Immediately they left the boat and their father behind and followed him. 

24 And he traveled throughout all of Galilee, and they brought to him those who had any sort of disease, and he ministered to them. 25 Great crowds followed him from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from the other side of the Jordan.