# MATTHEW

## 10

1 Calling to his disciples, he gave them power to cast out unclean spirits and to heal every sickness and weakness. 2 The names of the twelve apostles are these: first Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother; 3 Phillip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddeus; 4 Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot, who handed Jesus over. 5 Jesus sent these twelve off, commanding them:

"Do not go to the road of the Outsiders, nor to the city of the Samaritans. 6 Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 7 When you go, preach, saying that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. 8 Heal the sick, awake the dead, cleanse the lepers, throw out demons. You have taken without charge, give without charge. 9 Do not take gold or silver or copper for your wallet, no luggage for your journey, no change of clothes, no sandals or staff, for a worker deserves his food. 11 And whatever city or village you come to, determine if anyone in it is worthy, and remain there until you leave. 12 And going to that house, greet it, 13 and if the house is worthy, grant your peace to it. If it is not worthy, let your peace return back to you. 14 And whoever does not take you in or listen to you, when you leave that city, shake the dirt off your feet. 15 Indeed I say to you, it will be more bearable in the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than in that city on the day of judgment.

16 I send you as sheep in the middle of wolves; there be wise as snakes and as guileless as doves. Beware of men, for they will turn you over to the courts, and whip you in the synagogues. 18 And you will be dragged in front of kings and leaders on account of me, to bear witness to them and to all of the Outsiders. 19 Whenever they turn you over, do not be anxious about what you will say, for in that hour it will be given to you what to say. 20 For you are not the one who is speaking, but the spirit of your father who is speaking in you. 21 Brother will hand over brother to death, and father will be betray his child, and children will rebel against their parents and kill them, 22 and you will be hated by all because of my name. Anyone who stands their ground to the end will be saved. 23 When they hunt you down in one city, flee to another city. For truly I say to you, you will go through all the cities of Israel before the son of man comes.

24 A disciple is not above his teacher, nor is a slave above his master. 25 Sufficient for the teacher is that he would be like his teacher, and the slave would be like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much worse will they call the house's residents? 

Do not fear them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, and hidden which will not be made known. 27 What I say to you in the darkness, say in the light; and what you hear whispered, proclaim atop the houses. 

28 And do not fear those who can kill the body but is not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear the one who is able to send the soul and the body to Hell. 29 Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And one of them is not lost on the earth without your father knowing about it. 30 Every hair on your head is numbered. 31 Therefore do not fear; you matter more than many sparrows. 

32 Therefore anyone who will acknowledge me before men, I will acknowledge them before my father who is in heaven. 33 But anyone who disowns me before men, I will disown them before my father who is in heaven. 

34 Do not think I have come to bring peace on earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. 35 For I have come to divide a man from his father, and a daughter from her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. 36 And your enemies will be in your own houses. 37 He who loves his father or his mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. 38 And whoever does not take up their cross and follow after me, he is not worthy of me. 

39 He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life because of me will find it. 40 He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. 41 He who receives a prophet because he is a prophet receives the reward of a prophet, and he who receives a just man because he is a just man receives the reward of a just man. 42 And whoever gives one of my little ones a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, truly I say to you, he will not lose his reward.