# MATTHEW

## 11

1 When Jesus finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went along to teach and preach in their cities. 2 When John heard in prison about what Christ had done, he sent word by the disciples, 3 saying, "Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect somebody else?" 4 Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John the things you have heard and seen: 5 the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise up, and the beggars receive the good news." 6 And blessed is the anyone who does not take offense because of me."

7 And when he went along, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John, "What did you go out to the wilderness to gawk at? A reed shaking in the wind? 8 But what did you come out to see? A man wrapped in soft clothing? But - look! - those who wear soft clothing are in the houses of kings. 9 But why did you come, to see a prophet? Yes, I say to you, and even more than just a prophet. 10 Thus it is written concerning you, 'See, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare the way before you.' 11 Truly, I say to you, among those who were born of women, there is not one greater than John the Baptist, but the least important person in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 12 From the days of John the Baptist until right now the kingdom of heaven is breaking through, and the violent overpower it. 13 For all of the prophets and the law interpreted the scriptures until John. 14 If you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah who is about to come. 15 Anyone who has ears, let them hear. 16 But to what should I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the markets and calling out to other children. 17 They say, "We played the flute for, and you did not dance; we sang a funeral song for you, and you did not mourn."

18 For John came neither eating or drinking, and they said, 'he is possessed.' 19 The son of man came eating and drinking, and they said, 'Look at this man: a glutton and a drunk, a friend of tax-collectors and sinners.'  And wisdom is judged from the things that are done."

20 Then he began to to lay into the cities where most of his great works were done, that they did not change their minds. 21 "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you Bethsaida! Because if these powerful works that were done had happened in Tyre or Sidon, long ago they would have repented with torn-up clothes and ashes. I tell you, it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than it will be for you. 23 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hell. If they powerful acts that I have done had happened in Sodom, it would remain to today, 24 but I say to you, that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you."

25 At that moment, Jesus said, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and of the earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and revealed them to little children. 26 Yes, Father, because this was the way that satisfied you. 27 Everything has been given to me by my Father, and no one knows the son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wishes to reveal him. 28 Come to me all who are tired and burdened, and I will make it all go away. 29 Lift up my yoke upon yourselves and learn from me, for I am gentle and pure of heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."