# MATTHEW

## 12

1 In that time, Jesus came along through a grain-field on the Sabbath. And this disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck out the grains of corn and eat them. 2 The Pharisees, seeing this, said to him, "See, your disciples do what is forbidden on the Sabbath." 3 And he said to them, "Do not what David and those who are with him did when they were hungry? 4 How they went to the house of God and ate the bread of the presence, which is was not allowed for them to eat, but only the priests alone? 5 Or have you not recognized in the law that the priests in the temple defile the Sabbath and are not at fault? 6 I say to you that something greater than the temple is here. 7 If you had known what this means - "I desire mercy and not sacrifice" - you would not have passed judgment on those who are not at fault. 8 For the son of man is lord of the Sabbath.

9 Going along from there, he went to their synagogue. 10 A man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, "Is it acceptable to heal on the Sabbath?" so that they could accuse him. 11 He said to them, "Which one of you, if you had a single sheep, which fell into a trench, would not take it and lift it out?" 12 There how much more does a man matter than a sheep? Thus it is permissible on the Sabbath to do good.

13 Then he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand," and he stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other one. 14 As they went away, the Pharisees plotted together concerning how they might destroy him. 

15 Jesus, knowing this, went away from there. And many followed him, and he healed all of them, 16 and he warned them not to make known what had happened, 17 so that the word of the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, who said:

18 "See, my servant whom I have chosen,
My beloved with whom my soul is delighted,
I will set my spirit upon you,
And he will announce judgment to all the Outsiders.
19 He will neither make a fuss nor will he cry aloud,
Nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets
20 A smashed reed, he will not break,
He will not quench a dying wick,
Until he brings justice to victory
21 And the Outsiders hope in his name.

22 Then they brought to him a possessed man, who was blind and mute, and he healed him, so that the mute could speak and see. 23 And the entire crowd was baffled, saying, "Is this not the son of David?" 24 When the Pharisees heard this, they said, "He could not throw out demons except in the name of Beelzebub, the ruler of demons." 25 Seeing their anxiety, he said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself will be utterly ruined, and every house or city divided against itself will not stand. 26 If Satan throws out Satan, he divided against himself; how therefore will his kingdom stand? 27 And if I cast out demons in the name of Beelzebub, by whom do you sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. 28 And if I cast out demons by the spirit of God, has not the kingdom of God arrived? 29 Or how is anyone able to enter the house of a strong man and snatch his possessions, unless he first ties up the strong man? Then he may rob his house. 30 If you are not with me, you are against me, and who does not gather with me, scatters. 31 Concerning this, I say to you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, except the blasphemy of the Spirit. 32 And if anyone speaks a word against to the son of man, he will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, he will not be forgiven, not now, and not in the age to come.

33 Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree rotten and its fruit rotten, for you will know the tree by its fruit. 34 Litter of snakes! How are you able to say good things, being wicked? For from the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks. 35 A good man produces good things from his good treasure, but a wicked man produces wickedness from his wicked treasure. 36 I say to you that on the day of judgment people will account for every careless word which they speak. 37 For you are justified according to your words, and you are condemned according to your words."

38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, "Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you." 39 He answered them, "Wicked and adulterous generator, who seeks a sign! A sign will not be given for you, except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 40 For as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so also the son of man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights. 41 The men of Nineveh will rise up in judgment at this generation, and they will condemn it, because they repented because of the preaching of Jonah, and something greater than Jonah is here. 42 The queen of the south will rise up in judgment at this generation and will condemn it, for she came from the farther reaches of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and something greater than Solomon is here! 

43 "Whenever an impure spirit comes out of someone, it passes through an arid place looking for rest, and does not find it." 44 Then it says, 'I will return to my house that I came out of,' and, when it comes, it will find it vacant, swept clean, and in order. 45 Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and live there, and the last state of that person is even worse than the first. Thus will it be for this evil generation."

46 While he was still speaking to the crowd, his mother and his brothers stood outside, and 47 were seeking to speak to him. 48 He answer them, "Say to them, 'Who is my mother, who are my brothers?'" 49 And stretching out his hand to his disciples, he said, "Look at my mother and brothers! 50 For anyone who does the will of my father who is in heaven is my brother and my sister and my mother."