# MATTHEW

## 13

1 On that day, Jesus came out of the house and sat down by the sea. 2 And a great crowd huddled around him, so that he stepped into a boat and sat, and the entire crowd stood on the beach. 3 And he told them many things in parables, saying, "A sower of seeds went out to sow, 4 and as he sowed, some of the seeds fell along the road, and birds came and gobbled them up. 5 But other seeds fell on the rocks, where they did not have much soil; they shot up quickly, but did not have enough depth of soil, 6 and when the sun rose, they were scorched, and, since they did not have deep enough roots, they dried up. 7 Other seeds fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and strangled them. 8 But some seeds fell on good ground, and gave fruit, some a hundred times over, some sixty, and some thirty. 9 He who has ears let him hear.

10 The disciples went to him and said, "What were you talking about in that parable that you told us?" 11 He answered them, "It has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven; but to them, it has not been given." 12 For to the one who has, more will be given so that it overflows, and to him who does not have anything, it will be taken away from him. 13 This is why I speak in parables: because seeing, they do not see, and hearing, they do not hear, nor do they understand. 14 In their case, the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says:

You will hear and never understand,
and you will look, and never see,
15 For the heart of this people is dulled,
and with their ears they can barely hear,
and they have closed their eyes
but if they would see with their eyes,
or hear with their ears,
or understand with their hands and turn,
I will heal them.

16 "Blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. 17 For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous people desired to see what you have seen, but they did not see it. And they desired to hear what you have heard, but they have not hear it. 18 Therefore you have heard the parable of the sower. 19 When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand, the evil man comes and snatches the seed in his heart. This is the seed scattered along the road. 20 As for the seed which was taken by birds, this is the the person who hears the word and immediately takes it with happiness, 21 but this person has no roots in himself, and it is just for a little while, and when oppression or harassment comes because of the word, this person is immediately tripped up. 22 As for the seed which is among the thorns, this is the person who hears the word, but the concerns of the age, or the fraud of wealth crowd out the word, and he becomes fruitless. 23 As for the seed that fell on the good ground, it is the one who hears the word, and understands it, and bears fruit and makes a return of a hundred over, or fifty, or thirty.

24 "He offered them another parable, saying, "the kingdom of heaven is likened to a man sowing good seed in his field. But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds in the middle of the grain, and then he left. 26 And when the field sprouted, then he saw the weeds. 27 The servants of the man of the house came to him and said, 'Lord, did you not sow good seed in the field? How does it have weeds?' 28 He said to them, 'An enemy has done this.' And they said to him, 'Do you want us to go and collect them?' 29 He said to them, 'No. do not collect the weeds, because you will root out the grain at the same time. 30 Leave it alone and let both grow until the harvest, and at harvest-time, I will say to the harvesters: "Collect first the weeds and tie them together to be burned, then gather the grain into my barn."'"

31 He offered them another parable, saying, "the kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which someone takes and plants into a field, 32 and although it is the smallest of all the seeds, when it grows up it is greater than all of the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds come and make nests in it."

33 He told them another parable: "The kingdom of heaven is like yeast, which a woman takes and hides a tiny amount in the wheat until the whole thing rises." 34 Jesus told the crowd all of these things in parables; in fact, he said nothing to them except in parables, 35 so that the word of the prophet would be fulfilled, when he said,

I will open my mouth in parables, and I will roar what has been hidden from the beginning.

36 Then, leaving the crowd, he went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, "Explain for us the parable of the weeds of the field." 37 And he said to them, "The one who sows the good seed is the son of man, 38 and the field is the world, and the good see is the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of evil, 39 and the enemy who sows the weeds is the devil, and the harvest is the consummation of time, and the harvesters are the angels. 40 There just as the weeds are collected together and burnt up in the fire, so will it be in the consummation of time. 41 The son of man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all the sinners and those who do not obey the law, 42 and he will throw them into the furnace of fire, for in that place there will be weeping and grinding of teeth. 43 Then the just people will shine bright as the son in the kingdom of our father. He who has ears, let him hear.

44 The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and then hid again. Then in his joy and he goes and sells everything he has and buys the field.