# MATTHEW

## 15

1 Then the Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, "Why do your disciples violate the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread." 3 Jesus answered them, "And why do you violate the command of God for sake of your tradition? 4 For God said, 'Honor your father and your mother,' and 'Let him who abuses his father and his mother be put to death.' 5 But you say that whoever said to his father or mother, "What you would have gained from me is given to God," 6 he does not have to honor his father; and you have set invalidated the word of God for sake of your tradition. 7 Hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied truly of you,

8 This people honor me with their lips,
but their hearts are a long way from me;
9 their worship is useless,
teaching as established truth the commands of men.

10 He called the crowd and said to them, "Hear and understand: 11 it is not that which goes into the mouth that makes a person unclean, but that which comes out of the mouth." 12 Then the disciples came to him and said, "Did you know that the Pharisees heard what you said and were offended?" 13 He answered them, "Every plant that my heavenly father has not planted will be dug out by the roots. 14 Leave them alone; they are blind guides, and if blind lead the blind, will not both of them fall into a trench?" 15 Peter said to him, "Explain to us this parable to us." 16 And he said, "Do you still not have a clue? 17 Do you not know that anything that goes into the mouth moves along into the bowels, and then out to the toilet? 18 But the things which come out of the mouth comes out of the heart and this defiles a person. 19 For out of the heart come evil dealings, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, perjury, and slander. 20 These are the things that defile a person, but eating with dirty hands does not defile anyone."

21 Jesus left there and he went to the district of Tyre and Sidon. 22 And a Canaanite woman from the area came out and cried, "Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David! My daughter is possessed by demons." But he did not say a word. 23 His disciples went and asked him, "Send her off, because she is shouting at us." 24 He answered them, "I was sent only to the lost sheet of the house of Israel." 25 And she came to him and bowed down, saying, "Lord, help me!" 26 He answered her, "It is not good to take the bread for the children and throw it to the dogs." 27 She said, "Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table." 28 Then Jesus said to her, "Woman, your faith is mighty. Let it happen as you wish." And her daughter was healed that very hour.

29 Going along from there, Jesus came to the Sea of Galilee, and went up to a mountain and sat down there. 30 A great crowd came up to him, and among them were some who were lame, deformed, blind, mute and many others as well, and they threw themselves down at his feet, and he healed them, 31 so that the crowd was stunned, seeing the mute speaking, and the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. 32 Jesus called on his disciples and said, to them, "I am moved with pity for this crowd, because they have waited three days, and they do not have anything to eat. I do not want to send them away hungry, or else they might faint on the road." 33 And the disciples said to him, "Where will we get so much bread in the wilderness, so that we will feed such a large crowd?" 34 Jesus said to them, "How much bread do you have?" They said to him, "Seven loaves, and a few small fish." 35 Directing the crowd to sit down on the ground, 36 he took the seven loaves and the fish and blessed it, and gave thanks, and he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowd. 37 And everyone ate and was satisfied, and they took up seven baskets of leftover broken pieces. 38 The number who ate were four thousand men, in addition to the women and children. 39 And after letting the crowd go, he went into a ship, and he came to the region of Magadan.