# MATTHEW

## 19

1 When Jesus finished speaking, he left Galilee and went to the region of Judea, beyond the Jordan. 2 A large crowd followed him, and he healed them there.

3 The Pharisees came to him, testing him and saying, "Is it acceptable to divorce one's wife for any reason?" 4 He answered, "Have you not read that since ancient times 'He made them male and female', 5 and said, 'For this reason a man will leave behind his father and his mother and will cement himself to his wife, and the two of them will be one flesh?' 6 So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has united, let no one separate." 7 They said to him, "Why then did Moses command one to give a letter of divorce and send her away?" 8 He said to them, "Moses allowed you to divorce your wives because of your hardness of heart, but from ancient times it was not this way. 9 I say to you that whoever divorces his wife - except on account of sexual immorality - and marries another commits adultery." 

10 The disciples said to him, "If this is the situation of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry." 11 He said to them, "Not everyone will take this teaching into their hearts, but only those to whom it is given. 12 For some are eunuchs from birth, and others are castrated by men, and others are eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven. Whoever can receive this, let him receive it."

13 Then children were brought to him, so that he might lay hands on them and pray. 14 Jesus said, "Let the children come to me, and do not stop them, for this is the way of the kingdom of heaven." 15 He laid his hands on them and left.

16 Then someone came to him and said, "Teacher, what good thing should I do so that I will have eternal life?" 17 Jesus said to him, "Why do you ask me what is good? One thing is good: if you want to enter into life, observe the commandments." 18 He said to him, "Which ones?" Jesus said, "Do not kill, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not lie, honor your father and mother, and love your neighbor as yourself." 20 The young man said to him, "I have kept all of these. What do I still need to do?" 21 Jesus said, "If you want to be perfect, go and sell everything you own and give it to beggars, and you will have treasure in heaven, and then come here and follow me." 22 When he heard this teaching, the young man went away troubled, because he had great wealth. 23 Jesus said to the disciples, "Truly I say to you that it is difficult for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. 24 Again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to enter through the eye of the needle than for a rich man to go to heaven." 25 When the disciples heard this, they were amazed, saying, "Who can be saved?" 26 And Jesus looked right at them and said, "With men it is impossible, but with God all things are possible." 27 Then Peter answered him, "We have left behind everything and followed you. What is there for us?" 28 Jesus said to them, "Truly I say to you that in the regeneration, you, my followers, will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelves tribes of Israel, when the son of man is seated on the throne of his glory. 29 And everyone who has left behind his home, or his brother, or his sister, or his father, or his mother, or children, or fields because of my name will receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. 30 But many who are first will be last, and the last will be first."