# MATTHEW

## 21

1 As they approached Jerusalem, they came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives, and at that time Jesus called over two of the disciples, 2 and said to them, "Go to the village which is ahead of us, and there you will find a donkey tied up and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. 3 And if anyone asks you why, tell them that the lord needs it." Immediately he sent them out. 4 This happened so that the word of the prophet would be fulfilled when he said,

> 5 Speak to the daughter of Zion:
Your king comes to you,
Humble, and riding on a donkey,
On a colt, the foal of a beast of burden.

6 The disciples went away and did it as Jesus arranged, and they brought the donkey and the colt, 7 and they put on the animals their cloaks, and he sat down on them. 8 Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches and laid them down on the road. 9 The crowd that went before him and the crowd that followed him shouted, "Hosanna to the son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest places!"

10 When he went into Jerusalem the entire city was shaken up and said, 11 "Who is this?" The crowd said, "This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee."

12 When Jesus entered the temple, he threw out all of the salesmen and merchants in the temple, and he flipped over the tables of the money-changers, and the chairs of the salesmen of doves. 13 He said to them, "It is written, 'My house will be called a house of prayer', but you have made it a pirate's cave."

14 The blind and lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. 15 But when the high priests and the scribes saw the amazing things he had done, and the children crying out in the temple, saying, "Hosanna to the son of David," they were angry, and said to him, 16 "Did you hear what they said?" Jesus said to them, "Yes. Have you not yet read, 'From the mouths of babies and nursing children, you have prepared praise'?" 17 Leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and he stayed the night there.

18 In the morning, as he returned to the city, he became hungry, 19 and when he saw a single fig tree on the road, he came to it, but he did not find anything on it, not even a single leaf. He said to it, "You will never again bear fruit forever." And right away, the fig tree withered. 20 When the disciples saw this, they were amazed and said, "How did you cause that fig tree to wither right away?" 21 Jesus answered them, "I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will do not just things like the fig tree, but you will say to this mountain, "Go up and be thrown into the sea, it will be done. 22 And whatever you ask for in prayer, believing, you will receive.

23 When he came to the temple, the high priests and the elders of the people came to him while he was teaching and said, "By what sort of power do you do these things? And who gave you this power?" 24 Jesus answered them, "I will ask you one question, and if you answer me, I will tell you in whose power I do these things. 25 Where did the baptism of John come from? From heaven or from man? They debated the question among themselves and said, "If we say 'from heaven', then he will say to us, 'Then why do you not believe in him?', 26 but if we say, 'from man', we are afraid of the mob, for they all hold up John as a prophet." 27 They answered Jesus, "We do not know." He said to them, "Then I will not say to you in whose power I do these things.

28 "What do you think? A man had two children. Coming up to the first son, he said, "Child, go and work in the vineyard today." 29 He answered him, "I will." But he did not go. 30 Going up to the second child, he said the same thing, and the son answered him, "I do not want to," but later on he changed his mind and went. 31 Which of these two did the will of the father? They said to him, "The second." Jesus said to them, "I tell you the truth, the tax-collectors and prostitutes will go before you into the kingdom of God, 32 for John came to you on the road of justice, but you did not believe him, but the tax-collectors and the prostitutes believed him. But when you saw it, you did not change your minds afterwards and believe it. 

33 "Listen to another parable: there was a man who was the master of the house."