# MATTHEW

## 24

1 Jesus left the temple and went along, and the disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple. 2 He said to them, "Do you not see all of this? I tell you the truth, not one stone will be standing on top of another stone that will not be destroyed."

3 As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately and said, "Tell us when these things will happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the consummation all things?" 4 Jesus answer them, "Pay attention so that no one misleads you, 5 for many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and many will be tricked. 6 You will hear about wars and rumors of wars; look, and do not cry out, for it is has to happen, but it is not yet the end. 7 Nation will rise up against nation and king against king, and famines and earthquakes here and there. 8 All these things are the beginnings of child-birth. 9 Then they will turn you over to oppression and will kill you, and you will be hated by all the world for my name's sake. 10 Then many will stumble and betray each other and hate each other. 11 And many false prophets will rise up and trick many people. 12 Because of the increase of anarchy, the love of many of them will freeze up, 13 but the one who holds steady to the end will be saved. 14 And the gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the entire world, as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. 

15 When therefore you see the horror of destruction that the Prophet Daniel spoke of, standing in the sacred place (let the reader understand), 16 then everyone in Judea will flee for the hills. 17 Do not let the one who is on the top of the house go into the house to get their things, 18 and do not let the one who is in the field turn around to grab his cloak.