# MATTHEW

## 26

1 When Jesus finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, 2 "You know that after two days is the passover, and the son of man will be handed over to be crucified." 3 Then the high priests and the elders of the people came together to the inner rooms of the high priest Caiaphas, 4 and they plotted together that they would arrest Jesus furtively and kill him. 5 But they said, "Not during the festival, so that there will be no fuss among the people."

6 When Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, 7 a woman who had an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume came to him and poured it over his head as he was sitting down. 8 When the disciples saw this, they were irritated and said, "What a loss! 9 For this could have been sold for much money, which could have been given to the poor." 10 But Jesus perceived this and said to them, "Why do you cause this woman grief? For she has done a good work for me. 11 You will always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. 12 For when she poured this perfume on my body, she prepared me for burial. 13 Truly I say to you, whenever this gospel is revealed anywhere in the world, what she did will be spoken about as a memorial."

14 Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went out to the high priests and 15 said, "What will you give me when I hand him over to you?" They said to him, "Thirty silver coins." 16 From that time on, he sought out a proper time to betray him.

17 Now on the first day of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and said, "Where would you want us  to prepare for you to eat the passover meal?" 18 He said, "Come to the city to a certain man and said to him, 'The teacher says, "My time is drawing near. I will observe the passover with my disciples at your house."'" 19 The disciples did as Jesus directed them, and they prepared the passover. 

20 As it became evening, he reclined with the twelve disciples. 21 While they were eating, he said to them, "I tell you the truth that one of you will betray me." 22 They were terribly distressed, and they began to say to him one at a time, "Not I, Lord?" 23 He answered them, "He who has dipped his hand in his bowl will betray me. 24 For the son of man goes as it is written concerning him, but woe to that man who will betray the son of man. It would be good for that man if he was not even born." 25 Judas, who would betray him, answered him, "Not I, rabbi?" He said to him, "You said it."

26 When they were eating, Jesus took the bread, blessed it, broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take and eat, this is my body." 27 And taking the cup, he blessed it and gave it to them, saying, 28 "Drink, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. 29 I say to you, I will not again drink from this fruit of the vine until that time when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my father. 

30 After they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 31 Then Jesus said to them, "All of you will stumble because of me on this night, for it is written 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.' 32 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee." 33 Peter answered him, "Even if everyone stumbles because of you, I will never stumble." 34 Jesus said to him, "I tell you the truth, that on this very night before the rooster crows you will deny me three times." 35 Peter said to him, "If I have to die with you, I will not deny you." And all of the disciples said the same thing.

36 Then Jesus came with them to the area called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, "Sit here while I go over there and pray." 37 Taking along Peter and two sons of Zebedee, he began to grieve and be troubled. 38 Then he said to them, "My soul is very sad, even to the point of death. Remain here and stay awake with me." 39 Going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, "My father, if it is possible, let this cup pass me by. But not what I want, but what you want."

40 He came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, "Are you not even strong enough to stay awake with me one hour? 41 Stay awake and pray, so that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit is eager, but the flesh is weak." 42 A second time he went away, and he prayed, "My father, if this cannot pass along unless I drink it, let your will be done." 43 Going along, again he found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. 44 Leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the words again. 45 Then he came to the disciples and said to them, "Sleep and rest later on, for the hour is imminent when the son of man will be betrayed into the hands of sinners. 46 Get up and get going, for the betrayer is coming near."

47 While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the disciples, came and with him was a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of the people. 48 Betraying him, Judas gave them a sign, saying, "The one whom I will kiss is he. Arrest him." 49 Immediately he came up to Jesus and said, "Hello, rabbi." And he kissed him. 50 Jesus said to him, "Friend, do what you came to do." Then they came up to him and laid their hands on him and seized him. 51 And one of those who was with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the the high priest and cut off his ear. 52 Then Jesus said to him, "Return your sword to its place. For whoever takes up the sword will die by the sword. 53 Or do you think that I am unable to call to my father, and he will right away send to me more than twelve legions of angels? 54 But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that that these things must happen?" 55 At that time Jesus said to the crowd, "Have you come out like I am a pirate, with swords and clubs to capture me? 56 All of this has happened so that the writings of the prophets would be fulfilled." Then all of the disciples went away from him and fled.

57 Those who had arrested Jesus led him off to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had been gathered together. 58 Peter followed him from a long distance until they reached the inner courts of the high priest. He went inside and sat down with the servants to see the end. 59 The high priest and all of the Sanhedrin sought false witnesses against Jesus so that they might kill him, 60 but they did not find none, though many came to them. Later on, two people came to them and said, 61 "This man said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.'" 62 And high priest stood up and said to him, "Do you have no answer? What are these charges they have brought against you?" But Jesus was silent. 63 The high priest said to him, "I order you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the son of God." 64 Jesus said to him, "You said it. Only this I say to you, from this moment you have will see the son of man sitting on the the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven." 65 Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, "He blasphemes! Why do we still need witnesses? For now you have heard this blasphemy. 66 What do you think?" They answered him, "He is under penalty of death." 67 Then they spit into his face and slapped him, and they thrashed him, 68 saying, "Prophecy for us, Christ. who hit you?"

69 And Peter sat down outside the inner courts. A slave girl came to him and said, "You were with Jesus of Galilee." 70 He denied it in front of everyone, saying, "I do not know what you are talking about." 71 Going to the gateway, another girl saw him there and said, 72 "This man was with Jesus of Nazareth," and again he denied it with an oath, "I do not know the man." 73 After a little while, one of those who were standing around said to Peter, "Surely you are one of them, for your accent makes it clear." 74 Then to began to curse and swear, "I do not know the man!" and straightaway the rooster crowed. 75 And Peter was reminded of the words Jesus had said: "Before the rooster crowds, you will deny me three times." And he went away and wept bitterly.