# MATTHEW

## 27

1 When morning came, all of the chief priests and elders of the people plotted how they might kill him. 2 Tying him up, they led him away and handed him over to Pilate the ruler.

3 When Judas, who betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind and brought back the thirty silver coins to the high priests and elders, saying, "I have sinned by betraying righteous blood." 4 They said, "What is that to us? See to it yourself." 5 He threw the silver into the temple and left, and he went and hanged himself. 6 The high priest picked up the silver and said, "It is not acceptable to put this into the temple collection, since it is for blood." 7 Then they discussed it and they bought with the silver coins the potter's field for the burial of foreigners. 8 Which is why that field is called "the field of blood" until this very day. 9 Then the word according to the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled when he said, "They took the thirty silver coins, the price determined by the sons of Israel, 10 and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord ordered me."

11 Jesus stood before the ruler, and the ruler said to him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" Jesus 12 responded, "You have said it." 12 But when he was accused by the chief priest and elders, he did not say anything. 13 Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear what sort of charges they are bringing against you?" 14 Jesus said nothing, not even a word, so the ruler was completely astonished. 

15 Because of the festival, it was customary for the ruler to release one prisoner for the crowd. 16 They had at that time a notable prisoner named Barabbas. 17 Gathering them together Pilate said to them, "Who do you want me to release, Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ?" 18 For he knew that it was because of jealousy that they handed him over. 19 Also, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent for him and said, "Have nothing to do with this righteous man, for I have suffered much today in a dream because of him." 20 But the high priests and the elders persuaded the crowd so that they would ask to release Barabbas and not Jesus. 21 The ruler answered them, "Who do you wish for me to release?" They said, "Barabbas." 22 Pilate said to them, "What there will I do to Jesus, who is called the Christ?" They all said, "Crucify him!" 23 He said, "What bad thing has this man done?" But they shouted louder, "Crucify him!" 24 Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing but the noise became greater; he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, "I am without fault for this blood." 25 And all of the people answered him, "His blood be upon us, and our children." 26 Then he released to them Barabbas, and they whipped Jesus and turned him over to be crucified.

27 Then the soldiers of the ruler took Jesus to the ruler's house and gathered together the whole battalion before him. 28 They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, 29 and they twisted a crown of thorns and placed it on his head and they placed a reed in his right hand, and they knelt before him and mocked him, saying, "Hail, king of the Jews!" 30 They spit at him and took the reed and struck him on the head. 31 And when they had mocked him, they stripped off his robe and put his own clothes back on him.

32 Going out from there, they found a man named from Cyrene, named, and they forced him to pick up the cross. 33 Going to the place called Golgotha, who is called the place of the skull, 34 they gave him wine to drink mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he did not want to drink it. 35 They crucified him and divided his clothes by placing bets. 36 Then they sat down and watched him there. 37 They placed above his head the charge against him, which said, "This is Jesus, the King of the Jews." 38 Then they crucified him with two robbers, one on the right and one on the left. 39 Those who passed by blasphemed against him, wagging their heads, 40 and saying, "You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the son of God, come down from the cross." 41 Likewise the high priests mocked him with the scribes and the elders and said, 42 "He has saved others, but he cannot save himself. If he is the king of Israel, let him come down from that cross now and we will believe in him. 43 He trusts in God, let God deliver him now, if he is willing. For he said 'I am the son of God.'" 44 The robbers who were crucified with him insulted him in the same way. 

45 At the seventh hour it became dark over all the land until the ninth hour. 46 At the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, "Eloi, eloi, lema sabachthani!", which means, "My God, my God, why have you left me behind?" 47 Some of those standing there, hearing it, said, "This man is Elijah." 48 Immediately one of them ran and took a sponge filled with cheap wine, and put it on a reed and gave him a drink. 49 The rest of them said, "Wait, let us see if Elijah will come and save him." 50 Jesus again cried out in a loud view and gave up his spirit. 51 And the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook, and the rocks split. 52 The tombs opened up, and many bodies of sleeping holy ones were raised up 53 and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many. 

54 A centurion and those who were with him keeping watch saw the earthquake and because terrified, saying "Surely, this man is the son of God." 55 There were many women there looking at Jesus from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him, 56 And among them was Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.

57 When it became evening, a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, came to them, and he was also a disciple of Jesus. 58 This man came to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. And Pilate ordered it to be given to him. 59 Joseph took the body and wrapped it up in clean cloth, and 60 he placed it in his new tomb which he had carved out of rock. And when he had rolled up a great stone in the doorway of the tomb he went away. 61 Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting on the other side of the tomb.

62 The next day, after the preparation, the high priest and Pharisees came to Pilate, 63 and said, "Master, we were reminded that this sneak said while he was alive, 'After three days I will rise again.' 64 Therefore give the order to secure the tomb until the third day, so that his disciples will not go to the tomb and steal it and say to the people, 'He has risen from the death,' and the last trick will be worse than the first." 65 Pilate said to them, "You have a guard of soldiers, go and make it as safe as you can." 66 Leaving there, they secured the tomb, sealing up the stone and placing guards.