# MATTHEW

## 8

1 Coming down from the hill, a great crowd followed him. 2 And immediately a leper came to him, bowing down and saying, "If you are willing, cleanse me." 3 And stretching out his hand, Jesus touched him saying, "I am willing. Be cleansed." And immediately the leper was cleansed. 4 And Jesus said to him, "Do not tell anyone, but go and show yourself to the priest, and bring the offering which Moses prescribed, as a testimony of the things that happened.

5 When he came to Capernaum, a centurion approached him, calling to him, 6 and saying, "Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed in my home, in agony." 7 Jesus said to him, "I will go and heal him." 8 Responding, the centurion said, "Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof, but only speak a single word, and my servant will be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers underneath me, and I say to one of them, go, and he goes, and to another, come, and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. 10 When Jesus heard this, he was amazed and said to his followed, "Truly I say to you, I have not found faith like this in all of Israel. 11 And I say to you that many will come from east and west and recline with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, 12 while the sons of the kingdom are thrown out into outer darkness, where there will be weeping and grinding of teeth." 13 And Jesus said to the centurion, "Go on, let it be done as you have believed it would; your servant is healed this very hour." 

14 And when Jesus went into the house of Peter, he said Peter's mother-in-law lying ill with fever. 15 And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose, and served him. 16 When it was later in the day, many demon-possessed people were brought to him, and he threw out the spirits with a word, and he healed all who were ill. 17 Thus was the word of the prophet Isaiah fulfilled, when he said, "He took our weaknesses and held our sorrow in his hands."

18 When Jesus saw the crowd around him, he asked them to go to the other side. 19 And a scribe came to him and said, "Teacher, I will follow you where you would go." 20 Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the sun of man have nowhere to rest his head." 21 Another of the disciples said to him, "Lord, first trust me to go and bury my father." 22 Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead." 

23 And when he stepped into a boat, his disciples followed him. 24 And a great wave appeared in the sea, so that the ship was covered with a swell, but he was sleeping. 25 Going to him, they awoke him, saying, "Lord, save us! We are about to be destroyed!" 26 He said to them, "Why are you afraid, faithless ones?" Then arising, he rebuked the winds and the sea, and a great stillness set in. 27 The men were amazed, saying, "What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?" 

28 When he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, he met two demon-possessed men coming out of the graveyard, so savage that no one could pass by on the road. 29 They shouted, saying, "What are we to you, son of God? Did you come here to torture us before the time is right?" 30 And a herd of pigs were grazing away from them. 31 The demons called to him, saying, "If you throw us out, send us off into that herd of pigs." 32 He said to them, "Go." Coming out, they departed into the herd of pigs. And the whole herd drove down the slope and into the sea, and they drowned in the sea. 33 Going away from there, the pig-herds fled to the city and told everyone the news of everything that happened, and especially about the demon-possessed men. 34 All of the city came out to meet Jesus, and seeing him, they ordered him to leave their country.