# LUKE

## 1

1 As many people have set themselves to compile a narrative concerning the things which were brought to fruition among us, 2 and just as those who were eyewitnesses and servants of the word from the beginning gave to us, 3 it seemed to me, having followed all these things from the beginning, fitting to write to you, great Theophilus, 4 so that you might recognize the certainty of what you have been taught.

5 In the days of Herod, King of the Jews, there was a priest named Zachariah, of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. 6 They were both just before God, blameless, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord. 7 And they had no child, because Elizabeth was infertile, and both of them were advanced in years. 8 And he was doing his priestly routine when his division was on duty, 9 according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense, 10 and the entire multitude of people were praying outside the temple at the hour of incense. 11 And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right of the altar of incense. 12  Zachariah saw him and was troubled, and fear came upon him. 13 The angel said to him, "Do not fear, Zachariah, because prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will you a son, and you will name him John. 14 And he will be a delight and a joy to you, and many will be overjoyed at his birth. 15 For he will be great in the eyes of God, and he will not drink wine or liquor, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. 16 And he will turn many of the sons of Israel to the Lord their God, 17 and he will will go forward in the spirit and power of Elijah, and he will turn the hearts of fathers to children, and the disobedient to the righteous in wisdom, to prepare for the Lord a people made ready.

18 Zachariah said to the angel, "How will I know this? For I am old, and my wife is getting along in years." 19 The angel answered him, "I am Gabriel, standing in the presence of God, and I have been sent to say these things to you and to announce to you this good news. 20 And - look - you will be silent and unable to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe these things that I have said, which will be fulfilled in their proper time. 21 The people were looking for Zachariah, and they were wondering why he was taking so long in the temple. 22 When he came out he was not able to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple, and he was nodding at them, and he remained unable to speak. 23 And when the period of his service ended, he went home. 24 After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, 25 saying, "In this way the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked at me, and he has taken away my shame among the people."

26 In the seventh month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to the city of Galilee which was named Nazareth, 27 to a virgin engaged to a man named Joseph of the house of David, and the name of the virgin was Mary. 28 And the angel went to her and said, "Rejoice, you are highly favored, the Lord is with you." 29 She was confused by his message and questioned what sort of greeting it was. 30 The angel said to her, "Do not fear, Mary; for you have found grace with God. 31 You will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will his name Jesus. 32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, 33 and he will rule over the house of Jacob for all time, and there will be no end to his kingdom." 34 But Mary said to the angel, "How can this be, since I am a virgin?" 35 The angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come to you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, so that the one who is born will be called holy, the Son of God. 36 And - look! - Elizabeth your relative has conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her who was called infertile, 37 because nothing is impossible with God." 38 Mary said, "Look! - I am the servant of the Lord; may it happen to me according to what you have said," and the angel left her.

39 Mary stood up in those days, and went into the hill country quickly, to a city in Judea. 40 And she came to the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. 41 When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, 42 and she shouted with a great voice and said, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! 43 Has this thing happened to me so that the mother of the Lord would come to me? 44 For as the sound of your greeting came to my ear, the baby leaped with joy in my womb, 45 and blessed is the one who believed that the things that were spoken to her would come to fruition."

46 Mary said, 

> My soul exalts the Lord,
> 47 and my spirit rejoices in God my savior,
> because he has looked on the lowliness of his servant,
> for every generation will call me blessed from now on,
> 49 for the mighty one has done great things for me,
> and his name is holy.
> 50 His mercy is for those who fear him
> from generation to generation.
> 51 He has wielded strength with his arm,
> and he has scattered the arrogant in the thoughts of their hearts.
> 52 He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and lifted up the humble.
> 53 He has filled the hungry with goodness,
> and he has sent away the rich empty.
> 54 He has helped his servant Israel,
> in remembrance of his mercy.
> 55 Just as it is spoken to our fathers,
> to Abraham and to his descendants into eternity.

56 Mary stayed with Elizabeth for three months, and then she returned to her house.

57 The time for Elizabeth to give birth arrived, and she bore a son. 58 And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had increased his mercy for her, and they rejoiced with her. 59 On the eighth day, they came to circumcise the child, and they named him after his father, Zechariah. 60 His mother said, "No, he will be called John." 61 And they said to her, "No one from your family is called by this name." 62 They gestured to his father what he wished to call him. 63 He asked for a writing tablet and wrote, "His name is John." 64 Everyone was amazed, and his mother was opened and his tongue untied, and he said, "Blessed be God!" 65 Fear came over all of their neighbors, and in all the hill country of Judea all of these things were talked about. 66 Everyone who heard what happened put it in their hearts, saying, "What child is this? 67 For the hand of the Lord is with him. And Zachariah his father was filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke through the spirit:

> 68 Blessed is the Lord God of Israel,
> because he has visited and ransomed his people.
> 69 He raised up a horn of salvation for us,
> in the house of his child David.
> 70 Just as it was spoken by the mouths of the holy prophets from ancient times,
> 71 so that we would be saved from our enemies and all those who hate us;
> 72 to be merciful to our fathers,
> and to remember his holy covenant,
> 73 an oath which was sworn to Abraham our father,
> 74 to grant us that we - being guarded from the hand of our enemies -
> 75 might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness
> before him all our days.
> 76 And you, child, are called a prophet of the Most High,
> for you will go before the Lord to prepare his way,
> 77 to give the knowledge of salvation to his people
> in the forgiveness of their sins.
> 78 Because of the heart-felt mercy of God,
> where the sunrise will look at us from on high,
> 79 to brighten those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death,
> guiding our feet on the way of peace.

> 80 And the child grew and strengthened in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the days of his public appearance to Israel.