# LUKE

## 4

1 Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the spirit into the wilderness, 2 being tempted by the devil for forty days. 3 The devil said to him, "If you are the son of God, tell that rock to become bread." 4 Jesus answered him, "It is written, 'Man does not live by bread alone.'" 5 Taking him up, the devil showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, 6 and the devil said to him, "I will give you all this authority and their glory, because it has been handed over to me, and I will give to whomever I want. 7 So if you will worship me, all of this will be yours." 8 Jesus aid to him, "It is written, 'You will worship the Lord your God and serve him alone.'" 9 He brought him to Jerusalem, and stood him up on the pinnacle of the temple, and he said, "If you are the son of God, throw yourself down from this place, 10 for it is written, 'He will command his angels for you to watch over you,' and 'They will bear you up in their hands, so that you will not ever strike your foot on a stone.'" 12 Jesus said to him, "It is written, 'You shall not test the Lord your God.'" 13 When the devil completed every temptation, he went away from him, waiting for the right time.

14 Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. And word traveled throughout the whole region about him, 15 and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.

16 He went to Nazareth, where he was raised, and he went into the synagogue on the day of the Sabbath, as was his custom, and he stood up to read. 17 The book of the prophet Isaiah was given to him, and he opened the book and found the place where it is written:

> 18 The spirit of the Lord is upon me,
> because he has anointed me to deliver good news to beggars,
> he has dispatched me to announce the release of the prisoners
> and the recovery of sight for the blind,
> to set free the shattered,
> 19 to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.

20 When he closed the book, he gave it back to the assistant and sat down. And the eyes of everyone in the synagogue were staring at him. 21 He began to speak to them, "Today, this writing is fulfilled in your hearing." 22 They all spoke in favor of him and were amazed at the gracious words that came out of his mouth, and they were saying, "Is this not the son of Joseph?" 23 He said to them, "You will surely say to me his proverb: 'Healer, heal yourself.' Do what we heard you did in Capernaum here in your hometown." 24 But he said, "I tell you the truth that no profit is accepted in his hometown. 25 For I speak the truth that there were many widows in the days of Elijah in Isreal, when heaven was shut up for three years and six months, as a great famine came upon the whole land, 26 and Elijah was not send to any of them, but only to Zaraphath in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. 27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and no one was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian." 28 When they heard these things, everyone in the synagogue was filled with bile, 29 and they got up and threw him out of the city, and they brought him to a cliff upon which the city was built, so that they could throw him off it. 30 But he left, going right through the middle of them.