# LUKE

## 6

1 On the Sabbath it happened that he was going through the fields, and his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. 2 Some of the Pharisees said, "Why do you do what is not permissible on the Sabbath?" 3 Jesus answered them, "Have you not read what David and those who were with him did when they were hungry, 4 how he went into the house of God and took the bread of the Presence (which is not permissible to eat except for the priests) and ate it and gave it to those who were with him?" 5 And he said to them, "The son of man is Lord of the Sabbath."

6 On another Sabbath he entered into the synagogue and taught, and a man was there, and his right hand was withered. 7 The scribes and the Pharisees watched closely whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they could find an accusation against him. 8 But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, "Get up and stand in front of us." And he got up and stood there. 9 Jesus said to them, "I ask you whether it is permissible to do good or evil on the Sabbath, to save life, or to destroy it?" 10 When he looked around at all of them, he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he did it, and his hand was restored. 11 And they were filled with fury and talked with each other about what they would do with Jesus.

12 It happened in those days that he left and went out to the mountain to pray, and he was passing the night praying to God. 13 When it became day, he called to his disciples, and he selected twelve from among them, who he named apostles: 14 Simon who was called Peter, Andrew his brother, James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, 15 Matthew, Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon who was called the Zealot, 16 Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the betrayer.

17 After he came down with them, he sat down on a flat place, and a great crowd of his disciples were there, as well as a great multitude of people from all of Judea and Jerusalem and from seaside Tyre and Sidon. 18 They came to hear him and to be healed from their diseases, and they healed those who were troubled by unclean spirits, 19 and the entire crowd was seeking to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all. 20 And he lifted up his eyes to his disciples and said:

"Blessed are you beggars, for the kingdom of heaven is yours. 21 Blessed are you who are hungry, for you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you will laugh. 22 Blessed are you when people hate you, and when they reject you and insult you and dismiss your name as evil because of the son of man. 23 Rejoice and leap, for - look! - your reward is great in heaven.

> 24 But woe to you who are rich, because you already have your consolation. 
> 25 Woe to you, who are now filled up, for you will be hungry.
> Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.
> 26 Woe to you when everyone speaks well of you, because their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.