# LUKE

## 8

1 Afterwards he traveled through cities and villages preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him, 2 and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and illnesses, Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons came out, 3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's majordomo, and many others, who supplied him from their possessions.

4 When a great crowd was gathering and people came from many towns he spoke to them through a parable: 5 "A planter went out to sow his seed, and while he was sowing, some fellow on the road, and it was trampled and the birds of the air ate it. 6 Other seed fell on the rock, and as it grew it dried up, because it lacked moisture. 7 Other seed fell in the middle of the thorns, and when it grew together with the thorns, the thorns choked it out. 8 And other seed fell on good soil, and it grew and produced fruit a hundred times over." As he said these things, he said, "He who has ears, let him hear."

9 When his disciples asked him what this parable meant, 10 he said, "It is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest of them only in parables, so that seeing they will not see and hearing they will not understand. 11 This is the meaning of the parable: The seed is the word of God. 12 The seed which was on the road is those who heard, and the devil comes and takes the word from their hearts, so they will not believe and be saved. 13 The seed which fell on the rock are those receive the word with joy when they hear it, but they have no roots, they believe for a time but they fall away in the time of testing. 14 The one which falls among the thorns is those who heard it, and when the worries and wealth and the pleasures of life come they are squeezed and their fruit does not ripen. 15 The ones on the good ground are those hear the word and hold it fast in their beautiful and good heart and they produce fruit in endurance.

16 "No one lights a lamp and then covers it with a jar or puts it under the bed, but on a lamp-stand, so that anyone who enters the room will see the light. 17 For nothing is hidden which will not be revealed, nor is anything secret which will not be made known and come to light. 18 Watch how you hear, therefore, for whoever has, it will be given to him, and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken away from him.

19 His mother and his brothers came to him, and they were not able to meet up with him, because of the crowd. 20 And it was reported to him, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you." 21 He said to them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."

22 One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us go to the other side of the sea," so they left. 23 Sailing along, he fell asleep, and a wind-storm  came down on the sea, and they will filling with water and in a dangerous situation. 24 Going to him, they woke him up, saying, "Master, master, we are dying!" But he awoke and rebuked the wind and the swell of the sea, and they came to rest, and it became calm.

25 He said to them, "Where is your faith?" But they were terrified and were amazed, saying to each other, "Who is this, for he commands the wind and the sea, and they obey him?"