# LUKE

## 9

1 When he summoned the twelve he gave them power and authority over all the demons and to heal diseases, 2 and he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal, 3 and he said to them, "On your journey, do not take a staff or a wallet or money, and do not have two tunics. 4 Whatever house you go into, stay there until you leave. 5 Whoever does not receive you, when you leave that city shake the dust off your feet as a witness against them." They departed and went through the villages preaching the gospel and healing everywhere.

7 When Herod the tetrarch heard all the things that were happening, he was confused, because some said that John was raised from the dead, 8 and others said that Elijah had appeared, and still others said that one of the prophets of ancient times had risen up. 9 And Herod said, "I beheaded John; who is it that I am hearing these things about?" And he was looking to see him.

10 When the apostles returned, they describes to him what they had done. He took them and withdrew by themselves to a city called Bethsaida. 11 The crowd found out and followed him, and welcoming them, he spoke to them about the kingdom of God, and he healed all those who had need of it. 

12 As the day came to a close, the twelve came to him and said, "Let the crowd go, so that they can go into the villages and fields and find lodging and provisions, because we are in the wilderness." 13 He said to them, "Give them something to eat." But they said, "There is not more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people." 14 For there were about five thousand men. But he said to his disciples, "Have them sit down in groups of about fifty."  15 They did as he said and everyone sat down. 16 When he took the five loaves and two fish he looked up to heaven, blessed it, broke it, and gave it to the disciples to be offered to the crowd.  17 Everyone ate and was satisfied, and the leftovers were picked up, and the broken pieces were twelve baskets.

18 At that time he was praying by himself, and the disciples were with him, and he asked them, "Who do people say that I am?" 19 They answered, "John the Baptist, but others say Elijah, and others say that one of the ancient prophets has risen up." 20 He said to them, "How do you say that I am?" Peter answered him, "The anointed one of God." 21 But he rebuked them, ordering them to tell this to no one, 22 saying, "It is necessary for the son of man to suffer many things, and to be rejected by the elders and high priests and scribes, and to be killed, and to be risen on the the third day." 

23 He said to all of them, "If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself, and take up his cross every day, and follow me. 24 Whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever wishes to lose his life because of me, he will save it. 25 For what does it benefit someone to gain the whole world and loses or surrenders himself? 26 For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the son of man will be ashamed of them, when he comes in his glory and the glory of the father and of his holy angels. 27 I tell you the truth, some of those standing here will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God."

28 About eight days after he said these things, Jesus took Peter and John and James and went up to the mountain to pray. 29 While he was praying, the image of his face was changed, and his clothes became shining white. 30 And - look! - two men were talking with him - Moses and Elijah - 31 who were seen in glory and were talking about his departure which he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem. 32 Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but they were startled awake and saw his glory and the two men standing with him. 33 As the men left him, Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is good for us to be here, so let us make three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah," not knowing what he was saying. 34 When he said these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them. They were afraid when the cloud arrived. 35 A voice came out of the cloud saying, "This is my chosen son; listen to him!" 36 And the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept quiet, and no one told anyone at that time what they had seen.

37 The next day they went down from the mountain and a great crowd was standing with him. 38 And a man from the crowd cried out, saying, "Teacher, I beg you to look on my son, because he is my only son, and a spirit has taken him, and he suddenly shouts; it sends him into convulsions with foaming at the mouth, and it shatters him, and it will hardly leave him. 40 I have begged your disciples to throw it out, but they were not able." 41 Jesus said, "This faithless and perverted generation! How long will I be with you and put with you? Bring your son here." 42 While Jesus was still praying, the demon threw him down and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and he healed the servant, and he gave him over to his father. 43 And everyone was amazed at the majesty of God.

44 