# LUKE

## 12

1 During this time a crowd of thousands gathered so that they were trampling each other, and he began to speak to his disciples first, "Be on guard against the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 2 Nothing is covered up which will not be revealed, or hidden which will not be known. 3 Whatever you have said in the dark will be revealed in the light, and whatever you whispered in the closet will be announced on the house tops.

4 "My friends, I say to you, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. 5 But fear the one who, after killing the body, has the power to throw it into Hell. 6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God. 7 But all the hairs of your head are numbered. Do not be afraid, you matter more than sparrows.

8 "I say to you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the son of man will acknowledge him before the angels of God. 9 But he who denies me before men will be denied by the angels of God. 10 And everyone who speaks a word against the son of man, it will be forgiven him, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. 11 Whenever they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the powers, do not worry about how you will defend yourself or what you will say, 12 for the Holy Spirit will instruct you in that hour was it is necessary to say."

13 And someone from the crowd said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to divide his inheritance with me." 14 But he said to him, "Man, who established me as a judge or arbiter for you?" 15 He said to them, "Watch out, be on guard against all greed, because one's life is not in the abundance of his possessions." 16 But he told them a parable, saying, "The land of a certain rich man was very profitable, 17 and he thought to himself, "What will I do, because I do not have anywhere to store my crops?" 18 And he said, "I will do this: I will tear down my barn and build bigger ones, I will gather there all my grain and my goods, 19 and I will say to my soul, 'Soul! You have many good things laid up for many years: relax, eat, drink, and be cheery.' 20 But God said to him, 'Fool! On this night they will ask for your soul, and what you have prepared will be for whom?' 21 So it is for the one who stores up things for himself and is not rich towards God."

22 And he said to his disciples, "Therefore I say to you, do not worry in your spirit what you will eat, or in your body what you will wear, 23 for the spirit is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. 24 Consider the ravens: they do not plant seeds nor do they store goods, they do not have storehouses or barns, and God maintains them. How much more do you matter than birds? 25 And which of you can add one hour to his life by worrying? 26 If therefore you cannot add the least bit, why do you worry about the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow: 27 they do not work hard, nor do they spin cloth, but I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed as these. 28 If God clothes the grass in this way, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more you, who lack faith.

29 "Do not seek for yourself what you will eat and what you will drink; do not get excited, 30 for all the nations of the world seek after this, and your father knows that you need these things. 31 But seek his kingdom, and these things will be added unto you.

32 Do not fear, little flock, for your father is pleased to give you the kingdom. 33 Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Make for yourselves wallets that do not get old, with a treasure in heaven that never quits, 34 where a thief does not come near, nor does a moth destroy. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

35 "Put on your pants and light your lamps, and be like people waiting for their lord to return from a wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door when he comes and knocks. 37 Blessed are those servants, who the Lord finds awake when he comes. I tell you the truth that he will dress himself and sit down with them and he will come and serve them. 38 If he comes in the second or third watch and finds them like that, they will be blessed. 39 Know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief comes, he would be awake and not have left his house to be broken into. 40 You must be ready, because you do not know the hour that the son of man is coming."

But Peter said, "Lord, are you telling this parable 41 for us, or everyone?" 42 The Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and wise manager, who the master has set to his service, to give rations at the proper time? 43 Blessed is that servant who when the master comes finds him doing this. 44 Truly I say to you that he will put him over all his possessions. 45 But if this servant says in his heart, 'My master is taking his time coming,' and he will begin to hit the servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk. 46 The master of the that servant will come on a day he does not expect and at an hour he does not know, and he will cut him in pieces put him with the unfaithful ones. 47 But that servant who knows the will of his master but neither prepares nor does his will will receive a great beating. 48 But the servant who did not know what was fitting to do will be beaten a little bit. To anyone who is given much, much is required of him, and to the one who is entrusted with much, they will ask much more of him.

49 "I came to throw fire on the land, and if only it were already lit! 50 I have a baptism to baptize with, and how I am distressed until it is accomplished! 51 Do you think that I have come to bring peace in the land? No, I tell you, but division. 52 For from now on there will be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three, 53 father will be divided against son, and son against father, mother against daughter, and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law."

54 He said to the crowd, "When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say, 'A storm is coming', and thus it happens. 56 Hypocrites, you know how to understand the land and the sky, but do you not know how to understand this moment? 57 Why do you judge for yourselves what is right? 58 For as you go with your accuser before the official, try to straighten things out on the way, or else he will drag you away to the judge, and the judge will hand you over to the punisher, and the punisher will throw you into prison. 59 I say to you, you will not get out of there until you have paid back the last cent."