# LUKE

## 13

1 Some who were there at that time were bringing news to him concerning the Galileans whose blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices. 2 And he said to them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered these things? 3 No, I say to you, but if you do not repent all of you will be killed in the same way. 4 Or the eighteen on whom the tower fell in Siloam and they were killed: do you think that they were more indebted than all the others living in Jerusalem? 5 No, I say to you, but if you do not repent all of you will be killed as they were."

6 But he told this parable: "A man had a fig-tree planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit from it, and he did not find any. 7 And he said to the vineyard worker, 'Look, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig-tree, and I have not found it. Cut it down. Why should waste space? 8 But the worker said to him, 'Lord, leave it for this year, until I dig around it and I put down manure. And if it bears fruit it is better, otherwise, you can cut it down.'"

10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, 11 and behold, a woman was there who had had a spirit of weakness for eighteen years. She was stooped over and was not able to stand up straight. 12 When Jesus saw her and he called to her and said, "Woman, you are freed from your weakness," 13 and he put his hands on her, and immediately she was restored, and he gave glory to God. But the leader of the synagogue, irritated that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the crowd, "There are six days in which it is necessary to do this; on those days come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath." 15 The Lord answered him, "Hypocrites, does not each of you untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to give it water? 16 But this is a daughter of Abraham, who Satan has tied up for eighteen years, and it is not necessary to free her from her chains on this day of the Sabbath?" 17 When he said these things, all his enemies were put to shame, and the whole crowd rejoiced at all the glorious things which he had done.