# LUKE

## 14

1 Now he came to the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on the Sabbath to eat bread, and they were watching him closely. 2 And a certain man was before them who had a swelling. 3 Jesus said to the lawyers and Pharisees, "Is it permissible to heal on the Sabbath or not?" But they were silent. 4 Then he took him and healed him and sent him off. 5 He said to them, "Which of you, if a son or ox falls into a well, would not immediately pull him up on the Sabbath day?" 6 They were unable to answer these things.

7 He told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose who got the head of the table. 8 He said to them, "When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down at the head of the table, or else he may have invited someone more important than you, 9 and he will come to you and say to you, 'Give the place to this person, and then you will begin and with shame take the lowest place. 10 But when you are invited, go and take the lowest place, so that when he who invited you comes he will say to you, 'Friend, step up to a higher place', and then you will be honored in front of everyone who is seated with you, 11 for the higher-ups will be lowered and the lowly will be raised up."

12 And he said to the man who invited him, "Whenever you make breakfast or dinner, do not invite your friends or brothers or relatives or rich neighbors, or else they will invite you back and it will be repaid you. 13 But when you throw a party, invite the beggars, the crippled, the lame, the blind, 14 and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For it will be repaid you in the resurrection of the just." 

15 When ones of those sitting there heard these things, he said to him, "Blessed is anyone who eats bread in the kingdom of God!" 16 Jesus said to him, "A certain man made a great dinner, and he invited many people, 17 and he sent his slave at the hour of the dinner to say to those who were invited, 'Come, for it is ready now.' 18 And they at the same time began to decline. The first said to him, 'I have bought a field and I need to go out and see it; please excuse me.' 19 Another said, 'I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to check them out. I tell you, please excuse me.' 20 Another said, 'I have recently married so I cannot come.' 21 The slave came and reported to his master what happened. Then the master of the house was infuriated and said to his slave, 'Go quickly into the roads and streets of the city, and bring here the beggars and the crippled and the lame and the blind.' 22 The slave said, 'Lord, what you have commanded it done, and still there is space.' 23 The master said to the slave, 'Go to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, so that my house will be full, 24 for I say to you that none of these men who were called will taste my dinner.'"

25 A great crowd came together with him, and he turned and said to them, 26 "If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, indeed even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. 27 Whoever does not take up his cross and come after me, he cannot be my disciple. 28 For which one of you, wanting to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, if he has enough to complete it? 29 Otherwise when he has placed his foundation, he will not be able to finish it, and everyone who sees it will make fun of him, 30 saying, '31 This person started to build and could not finish it!' 31 Or what king, going to meet another king in war, will not sit down and first take counsel over whether he is able to with ten thousand to meet the one who comes with twenty thousand? 32 And if not, while he is still a long way off, he sends ambassadors ahead of him to ask for peace. 33 Likewise, therefore, any of you who does not say farewell to all of your possessions cannot be my disciple.

34 "Salt is good, but if the salt has become tasteless, how will its saltiness be restored? 35 It is not useful for the soil or the dung-heap; they throw it away. He who has ears, let him hear."