# LUKE

## 16

1 He also said to his disciples, "A rich man had a household manager, and charges were brought against this man that he was wasting his possessions. 2 He called to him and said, 'What is this I hear about you? Turn in your ledger, for you cannot be the manager any longer.' 3 The manager said to himself, 'What will I do, for my master taken my management job from me? I cannot dig, and I am ashamed to beg. 4 I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from management, people will receive me into their homes.' 5 So summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first one, 'How much do you owe my master?' 6 He said, 'A hundred units of oil.' But the manager said to him, 'Take your bill and quickly sit down and write fifty.' 7 Then, he said to the another, 'You owe how much?' And he said, 'A hundred units of wheat.' He said to him, 'Take your bill and write down eighty.' 8 And the master complimented the manager for his scam, because he acted prudently. For the sons of this age are more reasonable with their own generation than with the sons of light. 9 And I say to you, make friends for yourselves from unjust wealth, so that when it is eclipsed they may receive you into the eternal houses.

10 "One who is faithful in small things will be faithful with much, and he who is unethical with a small thing will be unethical in many things. 11 If therefore you are not faithful with unjust wealth, who will trust you with real riches? 12 And if you are not faithful which what belongs to others, who will give you that which is ours? 13 No one can serve two masters: for he will hate the one and love the other, or he will cling to the one and despise the other. No one can serve God and money."

14 When the Pharisees, who loved money, heard all these things, they were making fun of him. 15 He said to them, "You are justifying yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. Because what is exalted among men is horrible before God. 

16 "The law and the prophets were until John; from then the kingdom of God is preached and forces their way into it. 17 But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the law to fall away.

18 "Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.

19 "A certain man was rich, and he clothed himself splendidly in purple and linen, and he feasted every day. 20 But a beggar named Lazarus was laying at his gate every day, covered in sores, 21 and was desiring to fill himself from the trash of the rich man's table. 22 The beggar died, and was taken away by the angels to the side of Abraham, and the rich man also died and was buried, 23 and was in Hades in torment. He lifted up his eyes and saw a great distance away Abraham and Lazarus at his side. 24 He called out and said, 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am suffering in this flame.' 25 Abraham said to him, 'Child, remember that you received your good things during your life, and Lazarus in the same way received bad things. Now he is comforted here and you are suffering. 26 Besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been set, so that those who wish to cross from here to you cannot, nor can anyone cross from there to us.' 27 But he said, 'Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house. 28 I have five brothers, so that he may warn them so that they might not come to his place of torture. 29 But Abraham said, 'They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.' 30 But he said, 'No, father Abraham, but if one of the dead comes to them they will repent.' 31 But he said to him, 'If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded if someone rises from the dead.'"