# LUKE

## 17

1 But he said to his disciples, "It is impossible for temptations not to come, but woe to the person through whom it comes! 2 It would be advantageous for that person if a mill-stone were put around his neck and he were thrown into the sea rather than him causing one of the least of these to stumble. 3 Watch out for yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. 4 If he sins against you seven times in a day, and turns to you and says, 'I repent', you will forgive him."

5 And the apostles said to the Lord, "Add more to our faith!" 6 And the Lord said, "If you have faith like a mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry-tree, 'Dig yourself up and plant yourself in the sea,' and it will comply.

"Which of you, who has a servant who is plowing or watching sheep, will say to him, when he enters from the field, 'Come quickly and sit down.' 8 But will he not say to him, 'Prepare my supper, and dress yourself, and serve me until I eat and drink, and after these things you may eat and drink'? 9 Does he thank the servant for doing what was set out for him? 10 In the same way you, when you do everything which was set out for you, say, 'We are unworthy servants, we have done only that which we were obligated to do."

11 As they went to Jerusalem, he came through Samaria and Galilee, 12 and when he entered a certain village, ten men with leprosy met him, who stood a ways off, 13 and they lifted up their voice saying, "Jesus, master, have mercy on us." 14 Seeing them ,he said, "Go, present yourselves to the priests." And when they went they were cleansed. 15 One of them, seeing that he was healed, returned and glorified God with a loud voice, 16 and he fell down in front of Jesus, at his feet, thanking him, and he was a Samaritan. 17 But Jesus said to him, "Were not ten men cleansed? Where are the nine? Did no one see fit to return to give glory to God except this foreigner?" 19 And he said to him, "Get up and go; your faith has saved you."

20 When he was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he said to them, "The kingdom of God will not come in ways that can be observed, 21 nor will they say, 'Look, it is here,' or, 'There!'" 

22 But he said to the disciples, "Days are coming when you will want to see one of the days of the son of man, but you will not see it. 23 And they will say to you, 'Look, there it is', or 'Look here!' Do not leave and chase after them. 24 For just as lightning flashes and lights up from one side of the sky to the other, thus it will be with the son of man. 25 But first it is necessary for him to suffer many things and to be rejected by this generation. 26 As it happened in the days of Noah, likewise it will be in the days of the son of man; 27 they were eating, and drinking, and marrying, and be married, until Noah came into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed everything. 28 It will be like it happened in the days of Lot: they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, 29 planting and building; but on the day that Lot left Sodom, fire and brimstone rained down from heaven and destroyed everything. 30 So it will be on the day when the son of man is revealed. 31 On that day, let he who is on the housetop with his things in the house, not come down to take them, and similarly, let the one who is in the field not turn back. 32 Remember Lot's wife. 33 Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will survive. 34 I say to you, in that night two will be in a bed: one will be taken and the other left behind. 35 There will be two women grinding grain: one will be taken and the other left behind." They said to him, "Where, Lord?" But he said to them, "Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather."