# LUKE

## 18

1 He told them a parable so that they would always pray and not grow weary, 2 saying, "A certain judge in a certain city neither feared God nor showed respect to people. 3 There was a widow in that city, and she was going back to him, saying, 'Punish the plaintiff in my case.' 4 And he was not willing at that time, but after these things he said to himself, 'Even though I neither fear God nor respect man, 5 but because this widow keeps annoying me, I will give her justice, or else she will beat me down as she comes over and over again.'" 6 And the Lord said, "Listen to what the unrighteous judge says. 7 But will not God do justice to those he has chosen who shout to him day and night, and bear with them? I say to you that he quickly brings justice for them. But when the son of man comes, will he find faith on the earth?"

9 To those who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated the rest with contempt, he told this parable. 10 "Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax-collector. 11 The Pharisee standing by himself prayed these things: 'God, I thank you that I am not like other people - robbers, unjust, adulterers - or even as this tax-collector. 12 I fast twice a week, I tithe out of everything I get.' But the tax-collector stood a ways off and did not even want to lift his eyes to heaven, but he struck his chest saying, 'God, have mercy on me, a sinner.' 14 I say to you, this man returned to his house justified, rather than the other. For anyone who lifts himself up will be humbled, and the one who humbles himself will be lifted up."

15 And they were bringing to him infants so that he might touch them, but when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them. 16 But Jesus called them together, saying, "Allow the children to come to me, and do not stop them, for the kingdom of heaven is for such as these. 17 Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of heaven like a child will not enter it."

18 A ruler asked him, "Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?" 19 But Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. 20 You know the commandments: do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and your mother." 21 But he said, "I have kept all of these from my youth." 22 When Jesus heard this, he said to him, "Still one thing is lacking for you. Sell everything you have and give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and then come here and follow me." 23 But when he heard these things he became very sad, for he was very rich.

24 Seeing him, Jesus said, "How difficulty it is for those who have many possessions to enter the kingdom of God! 25 For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God." 26 But when they heard it, they said, "Then who can be saved?" 27 But Jesus said, "That which is impossible for people is possible for God." 28 And Peter said, "Look - we have left behind everything which is our own and followed you!" 29 But he said to them, "Truly, I say to you that no one who has left behind a home or a wife or brothers or parents or children, because of the kingdom of God, 30 will not receive many times as much in this time, and in the coming age, eternal life."

31 And taking the twelve, he said to them, "Look - we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything which was written about the son of man according to the prophets will be brought to completion. 32 For he will be given over to the outsiders, and he will be mocked and mistreated and spit at. 33 They will beat and kill him, and on the third day he will rise again." 34 But they understood none of these things, and this word was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend what was said.

35 When he drew near to Jerusalem, a blind man was sitting beside the road begging. 36 When he heard a crowd go by, he asked what this was about. 37 They told him that Jesus the Nazarene is passing by. 38 And he cried out, saying, "Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me." 39 The ones who were leading the way rebuked him to be quiet, but he shouted even louder, "Son of David, have mercy on me!" 40 Jesus stopped and ordered him to be brought to him. And when he came near, Jesus asked him, 41 "What do you want me to do?" He said, "Lord, give me back my sight." 42 Jesus said to him, "Recover your sight, your faith has saved you." 43 And right away his eyesight returned, and followed him, glorifying God. And the entire crowd, saying what happened, gave praise to God.