# LUKE

## 19

1 He entered Jericho and was passing through. 2 And there was a man named Zaccheus: he was the head tax-collector and he was rich. 3 He was trying to see who Jesus was, and he was not able on account of the crowd, because he was small in stature. 4 So he ran on ahead of them and went up into a sycamore tree so that he could see him, because he was about to pass through that place. 5 And as Jesus came to the spot, he looked up and said to him, "Zaccheus, hurry up and come down, for I need to stay in your house today." 6 So he hurried and came down, and he welcomed him in joyfully. 7 When everyone saw this, they were murmuring, saying, "He has gone in to lodge with a sinful man." 8 And Zaccheus stood up and said to the Lord, "Look - half of my possessions, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I have cheated anyone out of anything, I will repay them four times as much." 9 Jesus said to him, "Today, salvation has happened in this house, since he is also a son of Abraham. 10 For the son of man came to look for and to save the lost."

11 As they heard these things, he continued and told a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was about to appear right away. 12 Therefore he said, "An aristocrat went into a far country to acquire a kingdom and then return. 13 He called his ten servants and gave them ten minas and said to them, 'Make deals until I come.' 14 His citizens hated him, and he sent off a delegation ahead of him, saying, 'We do not want this man to rule over us.' 15 When he returned, having taken a kingdom, he said to call those servants to him to whom he had given the money, so that he may know what deals they had made. 16 The first came before him and said, 'Lord, your minas have earned ten more.' 17 He said to him, 'Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful in the smallest things, you will have power over ten cities.' 18 The second came and said, 'Your minas, lord, have earned five more.' 19 And he said to this servant, 'And you are to be over five cities.' 20 The other one came saying, 'Lord, here is your mina, which I have held store away in a handkerchief, 21 for I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man: you take where you did not deposit and reap where you did not sow.' 22 He said to him, 'I condemn you from your own mouth, evil servant: did you know that I am a harsh man, taking where I do not deposit and reaping where I do not sow? 23 Why did you not give my money to a bank? At least '