# LUKE

## 20

1 One day when he was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the high-priest and the scribes came up with the elders 2 and said to him, "Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who gave you this power." 3 He answered them, "I also will ask you a question, and you will tell me. 4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?" 5 They deliberated among themselves saying, "If we say, 'From heaven', he will say, 'Why did you not believe him?' 6 But if we say, 'From man,' all of the people will stone us, for they believe that John is a prophet." 7 And they answered him that they did not know where the baptism came from. 8 And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what power I do these things."

9 He began to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard, and he leased it to farmers, and he went away from a while. 10 At the right time he sent a servant to the farmers, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him and sent him back empty-handed. 11 And he sent another servant, and they beat him and dishonored him and sent him back empty-handed. 12 He sent a third one, and this one they wounded and threw out. 13 But the master of the vineyard said, 'What will I do? I will sent my beloved son; they will probably show him respect.' 14 When the farmers saw him, they said to themselves, "This is the heir; let us kill him, so that the inheritance will be ours.' 15 They threw him out of the vineyard and they killed him. What, therefore, will the master of the vineyard do? 16 He will go and kill these farmers, and he will give his vineyard to others." When they heard this they said, "May it not be so!" 17 But he looked right at them and said, "What then is this that is written:

> The stone which the builders rejected
> has become the cornerstone.

18 "Everyone who falls on that stone will be shattered; and when it falls on someone, he will be crushed."

19 The scribes and the high-priests sought to seize him at that time, but they were afraid of the people, for they knew that he had told the parable against them. 20 They watched him closely and sent spies, pretending to be sincere, so they might catch him in something he said, so that they could give him over to the authority and the jurisdiction of the governor. 21 So they asked him, "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly and you show no partiality, but from truth you teach the way of God; 22 Is it permissible for us to pay tax to Caesar or not?" 23 But he recognized their trickery and said to them, 24 "Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have?" And they said, "Caesar." 25 And he said to them, "Then give Caesar's things to Caesar and God's things to God." 26 They were not able in front of the people to catch him in what he said, and they were amazed at his answer and were silent.

27 Some of the Saducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him, saying, 28 "Teacher, Moses wrote for us, 'If a brother who has a wife dies, and he is without children, his brother must wife his wife and raise up offspring for his brother." 29 There were seven brothers; the first took a wife and died childless. 30 And the second and the third took her, 31 and likewise the seven left behind no children and died. 32 Later on the wife died. 33 Therefore whose wife will she be in the resurrection? For seven men had her as a wife." 34 Jesus said to them, "The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, 35 but those who are deemed worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection of the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage, 36 for they cannot die anymore, and are like the angels, and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection. 37 But that the dead are raised even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, when he says, 'The Lord God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.' 38 God is not the God of the dead but of the living, for all live to him."

39 Some of the scribes answered him and said, "Teacher, you speak well." 40 For they no longer dared to ask him anything.

41 But he said to them, "How do they say that the Christ is the son of David? 42 For David himself said in the book of Solomon:

> The Lord said to my lord,
> sit at my right hand,
> 43 until I place your enemies under your feet.

44 "There David calls him Lord, and how is he is son?" 45 And in earshot of all of the people he said to his disciples, 46 "Watch out for the scribes, who wish to walk around in robes and love greetings in the marketplace and the seat of honor at dinners. 47 They devour the houses of widows and as a pretense make long prayers, but they will receive the greater judgment."