# LUKE

## 21

1 Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury. 2 And he saw a poor widow put in two pennies, 3 and he said, "Truly, I say to you that this poor widow put in more than any of them, 4 for for all of those put in gifts from their abundance, but in her neediness she put in all she had to live on."

5 And as some were speaking about the temple, that it was decorated with beautiful stones and offerings, 6 he said, "These things which you see, a time will come in which not one stone is left here on top of another stone, which is not thrown down." 7 But they asked him, "Teacher, when will these things take place? And what sign will occur when these things are about to happen?" 8 And he said, "Watch out so that you will not be led astray, for many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he,' and 'The time draws near.' Do not go after them. 9 But when you heard of wars and instability, do not be frightened: it is necessary for these things to happen first, but the end will not be straightaway."

10 Then he said to them, "Nation will rise up against nation and kingdom against kingdom. 11 There will be great earthquakes and famines and plagues in various places, and there will be terrors and great signs from the heavens. 12 But before all these things they will lay hands on you and seize you, and hand you over to the synagogues and jails, carrying you off to kings and rulers because of my name." 13 This will be your chance to bear witness. 14 Therefore settle it in your hearts not to plan out your defense in advance, 15 for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of those who are against you will be able to oppose or answer. 16 You will be given over by parents and brothers and cousins and friends, and they will kill some of you. 17 And you will be hated by all because of my name, 18 but not a hair from your head will be destroyed. 19 In your endurance you will inherit your lives.

20 "When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near. 21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the hills, and those who are in the city depart, and let those who are out in the country not enter it. 22 Because these are the days of vengeance, the fulfillment of all that was written.

23 "Woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days, for it will be a great trauma on the earth and wrath against this people, 24 and they will fall by the point of the sword and they will be taken prisoner by all the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled by the nations. 

25 "And there will be signs in the son and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in puzzlement because of roaring sea and the waves, 26 people fainting from fear and expectation of what is coming into the world, for the powers of heaven will be shaken. 27 And then they will see the son of man coming on a cloud with power and great glory. When these things begin to happen, chin up and lift your heads, because your redemption is coming near."

29 And he told them a parable: "Look at the fig-tree, and all the trees. 30 As soon as they sprout, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near. 31 Likewise also for you, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near. 32 Truly I say to you that this generation will not pass along until all of these things occur. 33 The heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 

34 "But watch yourselves that your hearts will not be weighed down with dissipation and liquor and the worries of living, or else that day will come upon you suddenly like a trap. 35 For it will come upon all who lives on the face of the whole earth. 36 Stay awake at all times, praying that you will be strong enough to escape all these things which are about to happen, and to stand before the son of man."

37 Every day he was teaching in the temple, and he would leave at night and pass the evening at the mount called Olives, 38 and all the people would wake up early to hear him in the temple.