# LUKE

## 22

1 The feast of the unleavened bread, which is called Passover, drew near. 2 And the high priests and the scribes were seeking how they might kill him, for they were afraid of the people. 

3 And Satan entered Judas who was called Iscariot, who was counted as one of the twelve; 4 he went away and discussed with the high priests and the officers of the temple how he betray him to them. 5 They were glad and made a deal to give him money, 6 and he agreed, and he sought the proper time to betray him when he was separate from the crowd.

7 The day of the unleavened bread came, on which it was necessary to sacrifice the Passover lamb. 8 And Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go, prepare the passover for us so that we may eat it." 9 They said to him, "Where do you want us to prepare it?" 10 He said to them, "Look - when you go into the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him into the house that he enters, 11 and say to the master of that house, 'The teacher says to you, "Where is a guest room where I may eat the passover meal with my disciples?"' 12 He will show you a great upper room that is furnished. Prepare it there." 13 Going out they found it was just as he had said to them, and they prepared the passover.

14 And when the hour arrived, he sat down at the table, and the apostles were with him. 15 And he said to them, "I have longed to eat this passover with you before my suffering, 16 for I say to you that I will not eat this same meal until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God." 17 Taking the cup, he gave thanks for it and said, "Take this and divide it among yourselves, 18 for I say to you, I will not drink it from now on I will not drink the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes." 19 Taking the bread he gave thanks for it, broke it, and gave it to his them, saying, "This is my body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me." 20 And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, "This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. 21 But - look! - the hand of my betrayer is at the table with me. 22 For the son of man goes according to what has been appointed, but woe to that man who betrays him!" 23 They began to confer with each other about which of them was about to do this.

24 And there was rivalry among them, over which of them was regarded as the greatest. 25 He said to them, "The kings of the outsiders lord over them and those who have authority over them are called benefactors. 26 But it should not be like this with you, but let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as a servant. 27 For which of you is the greater, the one who sits at the table, or the one who serves? Not the one sits: but I among you as one who serves."

28 "But you are the ones who have stayed by me in my trials, 29 and I assign to you, just as my father assigned to me my kingdom, 30 so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on the thrones of the twelve tribes, judging Israel."

31 "Simon, Simon, look - Satan demanded to have you, so that he could sift you like wheat, 32 but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned around, support your brothers." 33 But Simon said to him, "Lord, I am prepared to go with you to prison and to death." 34 But he said, "I say to you, Peter, the rooster will not crow today until you have denied me three times."

35 He said to them, "When I sent you out without a wallet or a knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything?" And they said, "Nothing." 36 He said to them, "But now let one who has a wallet take it, and likewise the one who has a knapsack, and let the one who does not have a sword sell his cloak and buy one. 37 For I say to you, that this scripture must be completed in me: 'He was counted among the outlaws.' For what is written about me has its completion." 38 But they said, "Lord, look, here are two swords." He said to them, "That should suffice."

39 Leaving, he went to the Mount of Olives, as was his custom, and the disciples followed him. 40 When he came to the place, he said to them, "Pray that you do not enter into temptation." 41 And he pulled back about a stone's throw away, and he knelt down and prayed, saying, "Father, 42 if you are willing, take this cup away from me, but not my will, but your will be done." 43 And an angel was seen by him from heaven, strengthening him. 44 As he was in a struggle, he prayed more intensely, and his sweat was like congealed drops, falling down on the ground. 45 When he stood up from his prayers and came to the disciples, he found them sleeping because of grief, and he said to them, "Why are you sleeping? 46 Get up and pray, so that you will not come into temptation."

47 When he was still speaking, a crowd came, and one of the twelve called Judas was leading them, and he came close to Jesus to kiss him. 48 But Jesus said to him, "Judas, do you betray the son of man with a kiss?" 49 And when those who were around him saw what was about to happen, they said, "Lord, should we strike them with the sword?" 50 And one of them struck struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear. 51 But Jesus answered them, "No more!" and he touched the ear and he healed him. 52 But Jesus said to the high priests and the leaders of the temple and the elders and those who came out against him, "Have you come out to me like a robber, with swords and clubs? 53 Each day I have been in the temple with you, but you did not lay hands on me, but this is your hour, and the power of darkness."

54 They took him and led him away to the house of the high priest, and Peter followed him from a long way back. 55 When they had started a fire in the middle of the courtyard and were sitting together, Peter sat down among them. 56 A servant-girl saw him sitting near the fire and looked closely at him and said, "This man also was with him as well." 57 But he denied it, saying, "I do not know him, woman." 58 After a little while, another person saw him and said, "You are one of them." But Peter said, "Man, I am not." 59 And one hour later another one confidently said, "In truth, this man was with him, for he is Galilean." 60 But Peter said to him, "Man, I do not know who you are talking about." Right at that moment, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed, 61 and the Lord turned and looked into Peter's face, and Peter was reminded of the word of the Lord, when he said to him, "Before the rooster crows today you will deny me three times." 62 And he went away from there and wept bitterly.

63 And the men who were holding Jesus were mocking him and they beat him, 64 and they blindfolded him and asked him, "Prophesy! Who hit you?" 65 And they said many other blasphemies to him.

66 As it became day, the elders of the people gathered together, both the high priests and the scribes, and they led him out to their council, 67 saying, "If you are the Christ, tell us." But he said to them, "If I say it to you, you will not believe, 68 and if I ask you, you will not answer. 69 But from now on the son of man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God." 70 And everyone said, "Therefore are you the son of God?" But he said to them ,"You have said that I am." 71 And they said, "Why do we still need witnesses? For we have heard it from his own mouth."