# LUKE

## 23

1 The entire crowd got up and led him to Pilate, 2 and they began to speak against him, saying, "We found this man perverting our nation and preventing the giving of tribute to Caesar and saying that he himself is Christ, a king." 3 Pilate asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" He answered, "You have said it." 4 But Pilate said to the high priests and the crowd, "I find no fault in this man." 5 But they were impatient, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all of Judea, from Galilee even to this place."

6 When Pilate heard this, he asked whether this man was a Galilean. 7 When he learned that this was under the jurisdiction of Herod, he sent him to Herod, as he was in Jerusalem in those days. 8 And when Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, for he had wanted to see him for a long time, because he had heard about him, and he wished to see some sign done by him. 9 He questioned him at length, and he did not answer at all. 10 The high priests and the scribes stood by, vigorously speaking against him. 11 And Herod with his soldiers mistreated him and mocked him. Then they dressed him in bright clothing and sent him back to Pilate. 12 Herod and Pilate became friends with each other on that day, for before that they were at odds with each other.

13 Pilate called together the high priests and the leaders of the people, 14 and he said to them, "You brought this man to me as one who was diverting the people, and - look - I have examined him in front of you and found no fault in this man of the things that you have accused him of. 15 Niether did Herod, for he sent him to us, and he has done nothing deserving of death. 16 Therefore I will punish him and then let him go."

18 But they all cried out together, saying, "Take away this man, release Barabbas for us!" 19 Barabbas was a man who was thrown into prison for an uprising in the city and for murder. 20 Again Pilate addressed them, "Do you want me to release Jesus?" 21 But they called back to him, "Crucify, crucify him!" 22 A third time he said to them, "What evil has this man done? I have found no fault in him deserving death. Therefore I have punished him and I will release him." 23 But they were urgent with loud voices, begging that he be crucified, and their voices were overpowering. 24 And Pilate decided that their request should be granted. 25 He released the one who was thrown in jail for an uprising and murder, for whom they asked, and he handed over Jesus to their will.

26 As they took him away, they seized a certain Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the fields, and put the cross on him, to carry it behind Jesus. 27 A great number of people followed him, and women who were mourning and wailing. 28 Turning to the women, Jesus said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not cry for me, but cry for yourselves and your children, 29 because - look - the days are coming when they will say, 'Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore children and the breasts that never nursed.' 30 Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us up,' 31 for if they do these things when the wood is moist, what will they do when it is dry?"

32 Two others, who were criminals, were led up with him to be put to death. 33 And when they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified him and the criminals. 34 Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing." And they divided up his clothes and threw dice for them. 35 And the people stood, watching, and the leaders were mocking him, saying, "He has saved others, let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, the chosen one." 36 The soldiers came up to him and mocked him, bringing to him sour wine 37 and saying, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself." 38 And there was an inscription over him, which said, "This man is the king of the Jews."

39 One of the criminals hanging there was blaspheming him: "Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!" 40 But the other answered him in rebuke: "Do you not fear Godm because you are receiving the same sentence? We have received it justly, 41 for we are receiving what we deserve for what we have done, but this man has done nothing wrong." 42 And he said to Jesus, "Remember me when you come into your kingdom." 43 Jesus said to him, "I am telling you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise." 

44 Already it was about the sixth hour, and darkness fell upon the entire land until the ninth hour. 45 When the sun was eclipsed, the curtain of the temple was torn right down the middle. 46 And Jesus said with a loud voice, "Father, I commit my spirit into your hands." 47 When the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, "Certainly this man was righteous!" 48 When all the crowds which had assembled for the spectacle saw what had happened, they turned away, beating their chests. 49 All those who knew him and the women who came together from Galilee stood a great distance away to see these things.

50 Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the council, and a good and just man, 51 and he had consented to their will and their action. He was from the city of the Jews, Arimathea, and he was looking for the kingdom of God. 52 He went to Pilate and he asked for the body of Jesus, 53 and he took it dowwn and wrapped it in linen, and he laid him in a tomb hewn from stone, where no one had yet been laid. 54 It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was dawning. 55 The women, who had come with him from Galilee, followed and saw the tomb and how his body was placed. 56 Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments.

57 And on the Sabbath, they rested, according to the commandment.