# LUKE

## 24

1 But on the first day of the week, in the morning, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared. 2 And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, 3 and when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 4 While they were baffled about this, two men stood by them in dazzling clothes. 5 They were afraid and put their faces to the ground, and the men said to them, "Why are you seeing the living among the dead? 6 He is not here, but he has risen. Remember what he said to you when he was still in Galilee, 7 that it is necessary for the son of man to be betrayed into the hands of sinful men and crucified, but on the third day he will rise." 8 They remembered his words, 9 and returned from the tomb and announced these things to the eleven and to all of the rest. 10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and other women with them who told these things to the apostles, 11 but these words seemed to them silly, and they did not believe the women. 12 But Peter stood up and ran to the tomb, and he stooped over and looked at the linen cloths by themselves, and seeing what had happened he went away.

13 Now two of them on that day were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, 14 and they conversing with each other about all the things that had happened. 15 As they were talking and discussing these things, Jesus himself came near them and went with them, 16 but their eyes were prevented from recognizing him. 17 He said to them, "What are you talking about as you walk?" And they stood there, gloomily. 18 One named Cleopas answered him, "Are you the only man visiting Jerusalem who does not know what has happened in these days?" 19 He said to them, "What happened?" They said to him, "It was concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a powerful prophet in word and in deed before God and all of the people, 20 how the high priests and their rulers betrayed him to the sentence of death and they crucified him. 21 We were expecting that he is the one who is to come and random Israel. And after all of these things, the third day afterwards has come. 22 But some of our women amazed us; they were at the tomb at dawn, 23 and when they did not find his body they came back saying that they had seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. 24 Some of those who were with us went away to the tom , and they found it was just as the women had said it was, and they did not see him." 

25 He said to them, "Foolish ones, and slow in heart to believe everything that the prophets have said! 26 Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things to enter into his glory?" 27 And leading them from Moses and all of the prophets, he explained to them all of the writings about himself.

28 They came near to the village they were going to, and he pretended that he was going farther along. 29 But they compelled him, saying, "Stay with us, because it is nearly evening and the day has already come to a close." So he went in and stayed with them. 30 As he sat at the table with them, he took the bread, blessed it, broke it and gave it to them, 31 and their eyes were opened and they recognized him. And he disappeared. 32 They said to each other, "Did not our hearts burn while he was talking to us on the road, while he was opening and explaining the scriptures to us?" 33 At that very hour, they got up and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those who were gathered with them, 34 and they told them, "The Lord has actually risen, and he has appeared to Simon!" 35 And they explained in full the things which had happened on the road, and how he was recognized by them as he broke bread.

36 As they were saying these things, he stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you." 37 But they were started and afraid, and they were thinking they had seen a spirit. 38 And he said to them, "Why are you panicking? And why do doubts come up in your hearts? 39 Look at my hands and my feet, because I am he. Touch me and look, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have." 40 Saying this, he showed them his hands and feed, 41 and while they were still beyond belief with joy and wonderment, he said to them, "Do you have anything here to eat?" 42 They gave him a piece of broiled fish, 43 and he took it and ate it in front of them.

44 He said to them, "These are the words which I have spoke to you while I was still with you, because it must happen to fulfill everything which as written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me." 45 Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures, 46 and he said to them, "Surely it is written that the Christ must suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, 47 and he must announce in his name repentance for the forgiveness of sins for all nations, starting with Jerusalem. 48 You are the witnesses of these things. 49 And - look - I am sending the promise of my father on you; but stay in the city until you are clothed in power from above."

50 He led them out to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. 51 As he was blessing them, he separated from them and was taken up into heaven. 52 They worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, 53 and they were always praising God in the temple.