# PHILIPPIANS

## 1

1 Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all of the holy ones of in Christ Jesus in Philippi with the overseers and the deacons. 2 Grace to you and peace from God our father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 I thank my God at every memory of you, always in all of my prayers for you, 4 praying with rejoicing, 5 for your fellowship for the gospel from the first day until today, 6 being convinced of this: that he who began a good work in you will fulfill it until the day of Jesus Christ. 7 It is right for me to think this way about all of you, because I have you in my heart, and in my chains and in my defense and in my confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers with me of grace. 8 For God is my witness, how I long for all of you in the heart of Christ Jesus. 9 I pray this that your love will overflow still more and more in knowledge and in all discernment, 10 so that you may put to the test what is excellent, so that you may be pure and innocent in the day of Christ, 11 being filled up with the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.

12 I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that what has happened to me has really driven the gospel's progress, 13 so that it has become apparent among the entire Praetorian guard and the all of the rest that my chains are for Christ. 14 And most of the brothers and sisters, being persuaded by my chains, are much more confident to speak the word of God fearlessly.

Some, on the one hand, preach Christ because of jealousy and rivalry; 15 on the other hand, some preach Christ because of good-will. 16 The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel, 17 but the former proclaim Christ out of personal ambition, not innocently, but thinking to stir up trouble for me in my chains. 18 What then? Except that in every place, whether with bad motives or in truth, Christ is proclaim, and in this I rejoice.

But I will rejoice, 19 for I know that through your prayers and the provision of the spirit of Jesus Christ, this will work out for my salvation, 20 according to my earnest expectation and hope that I will not be ashamed, but in all frankness that always and even now Christ will be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death. 21 For me life is Christ and death is profit. 22 If I live in the flesh, this is for me the fruitful work, yet which is my preference I cannot tell. 23 I am hard-pressed between the two, having the desire to to leave and be with Christ, for that is much better, 24 but to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake. 25 Being convinced of this, I know that I will remain and stand alongside all of you for your progress of the joy in the faith, 26 so that your boasting in Christ Jesus will overflow in me because of my return to you.

27 Only act in a way befitting a citizen of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or, while away, I hear about you, that you may stand in one spirit, with one mind struggling together for the faith of the gospel, 28 and not being frightened in anything by the opposition. This is a clear sign of their destruction, and your salvation, and that is from God. 29 For it has been given to you because of Christ, not just to believe in him, but to suffer on his account, 30 having this same struggle which you saw in me and which you now hear from me.