# PHILEMON

## 1

1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus and Timothy his brother, to Philemon our beloved fellow-worker 2 and to Appia our sister and Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in your house. 3 Grace to you and peace from God our father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

4 I thank my God every time I remember you in my prayers, 5 hearing of the love and faith that you have for the Lord Jesus and all of the saints. 6 I pray that the partnership of your faith will become effective for the recognition of every good thing that is in us for Christ's sake. 7 I have great joy and comfort for your love, because the hearts of the saints have gained comfort because of you, brother.

8 Because of this, although I have freedom to speak in Christ to set forth what is proper for you, 9 yet I ask you, for love's sake, as I am Paul, an old man and now a prisoner of Christ Jesus, 10 I put forward a request concerning my child 11 Onesimus, who whose father I became in chains (he was then useless to you, but now useful to you and me). 12 I am sending him back to you, and he is my heart. 13 I would prefer to keep him near me, so that he might serve me on your behalf in the chains of the gospel, 14 but I did not want to do anything without your knowledge, so that your goodness would not be by necessity, but voluntary. 15 Perhaps this is why he left you for a time, so that you might have him back forever, 16 no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, in the flesh and in the Lord.

17 If therefore you have fellowship with me, receive him as you would me. 18 If he has done you wrong, or owes you anything, count it against me. 19 I, Paul, have written this with my own hand, and I will repay it, not to even say that you owe me yourself besides. 20 Yes, brother, I want some profit from you in the Lord; set at ease my heart in Christ.

21 Confident of your obedience I have written to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. 22 At the same time prepare a guest-room for me, for I hope that because of my prayers I will be able to greet you.

23 Welcome Ephaphras, who is my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus, 24 and also Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow-workers.

25 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.