# MARK

## 1

1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

2 Just as it is written in the prophet Isaiah, 

> I will send my messenger before your face,
> who prepare your path.
> 3 A voice crying out in the wilderness,
> prepare the way of the Lord,
> make straight his paths.

4 It happened that John was baptizing and preaching in the wilderness, and his message was repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 5 And the entire region of Judea and all of Jerusalem came out for him, being baptized by him in the river Jordan. 6 And John was dressed in camel hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. 7 And he preached, saying, "One who is greater than I is coming after me, and I am not worthy to to bend over and untie his sandals. 8 I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.

9 In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John. 10 Right away, when he came up out of the water they saw the heavens separated, and the spirit coming down to him as a dove. 11 And a voice from the heavens, saying, "You are my beloved son, I delight in you." 

12 Immediately, the spirit drove him out to the wilderness. 13 He was in the wilderness for forty days, being tested by Satan, and he was with wild animals, and the angels took care of him.

14 After John was arrested, Jesus came to Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, 15 and saying, "The time has come to an end, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel." 16 Going alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting their nets into the sea, for they were fishermen. 17 Jesus said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men." 18 Immediately they abandoned their nets and followed him. 19 When they had gone a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, and they were repairing the nets in a boat. 20 Right away he called to them, and they left their father Zebedee behind in the boat with the hired help and went out after Jesus.

21 They went on to Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. 22 They were astounded by his teaching, for he teaching them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. 

23 There was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, 24 "What are we to you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us, for I know who you are, the holy one of God." 25 Jesus rebuked him, "Be quiet and come out of him!" 26 The unclean spirit convulsed him shouted with a loud voice, came out of him, and everyone was amazed, 27 so they asked each other, "What is this, a new teaching? By what power does he give orders to unclean spirits, and they obey him?" 28 The news immediately went out everywhere and to the adjoining regions of Galilee.

29 Then he left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon and Andrew with James and John. 30 Simon's mother-in-law was lying in bed with a fever, and quickly they told Jesus about her, and going to her, he took her by the hand and raised her up, 31 and the fever left her, and he ministered to them.

32 When it became evening and the sun was setting, they brought to him all those who were sick or oppressed by evil spirits. 33 And all of the city gathered at his door, 34 and he healed many who were sick with different diseases, and he threw out many demons, and he did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew him.

35 And rising very early in the morning, while it was still morning, he went to the desert and prayed there. 36 Simon and others with him were pursuing him, 37 and they found him and said to him, "Everyone is looking for you." 38 He said to them, "Let us go to the towns nearby, so that I can preach there, for that is why I came out here." 39 He went along preaching in their synagogues all of Galilee and throwing out demons.

40 A leper came to him, begging him and kneeling, saying to him, "If you wish, you are able to cleanse me." 41 Jesus was deeply moved, and he stretched out his hand and touched him, and he said to him, "I want to, be cleansed." 42 Right away the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. 43 And he reprimanded him and sent him away at once, 44 and he said to him, "See to it that you say nothing to no one, but show yourself to the priest and offer the sacrifice for your cleansing that Moses instituted, as a witness to what happened." 45 Going out, he began to tell many people and word spread everywhere, so that he was no longer able to be seen going into a city, but he was out in the wilderness, and people came to him from all over.