# MARK

## 3

1 Again he entered into the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand, 2 and they watched him closely to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, 3 and he said to the man who had the withered hand, "Come here." 4 He said to them, "Is it permissible to do good on the Sabbath, or evil, to save a life, or kill it?" They were silent. 5 He looked at them with rage, hurt by their hardened hearts, and he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand," and he stretched it out, and his hand was repaired. 6 The Pharisees immediately left with the Herodians and plotted to kill him.

7 Jesus withdrew to the sea, and a great number followed him, 8 from Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem and Idumea and beyond the Jordan, and from the areas around Tyre and Sidon. A great crowd, and as many as heard him came to him. 9 He said to his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, so that they would not crush him, 10 for he healed many, so that anyone who had diseases pressed in to touch him. 11 When the unclean spirits looks at him, they fell down before him and cried out saying, "You are the son of God!" 12 But he ordered them not to reveal his identity.

13 Jesus went up to the mountain and called on whomever he wished, and they came out to him, 14 and he appointed twelve - who he called apostles - so that they would be with him and he would send them to preach. 15 They had authority to expel demons, 16 so he appointed the twelve: Simon, whose name was changed to Peter, 17 James the son of Zebedee and John his brother (he named them Boanerges, which means sons of thunder), 18 and Andrew and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Zealot, 19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.

20 He entered the house. And again the crowd assembled, so that they could not even eat, 21 and when those who were with him heard him, they went out to grab him, for they were saying, "He is crazy."

22 The scribes came down from Jerusalem and said that he was possessed by Beelzebul, and that he threw out demons by the authority of demons. 23 Invoking parables, he said to them, "How can Satan throw out Satan? 24 If a kingdom if divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand, 25 and if a house is divided against itself, that house will not stand, 26 and if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand but will come to an end. 27 But no one is able to enter into the house of a strong man and steal his things if he does not first tie up the strong man, and then he will rob the house. 28 Truly I say to you, all things will be forgiven of the sons of men, all sins and blasphemy, 29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit is never forgiven, and is guilty of an eternal sin," 30 for they were saying, "He has an unclean spirit."

31 His mother and his brother came to him, standing outside, and they to him and called for him. 32 The crowd was seated around him, and they said to him, "Your mother and your brothers are outside looking for you." 33 He answered them, "Who are my mother and my brothers?" 34 Looking around him at those who were seated in a circle, he said, "Look at my mother and brothers. 35 Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and my mother."