# MARK

## 4

1 Again he began to teach beside the sea. And a great crowd gathered around him, so that he stepped into a boat on the sea, and the entire crowd was on the shore. 2 He taught them in many parables, and in his teaching he said this: 3 "Listen. A sower came out and planted seeds. 4 And it happened that some of the seeds fell on the road, and the birds came and ate them up. 5 Other seeds fell on the rocks where they did not have enough soil, and immediately they sprung up, but they did not have deep soil, 6 and when the sun rose they were burned up, and because they did not have roots, they were parched. 7 Other seeds fells among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked it out, and it did not produce grain. 8 Other seeds fell on the good soil, and grew up and increased and produced grain, and yielded thirty-fold or sixty-fold or a hundred-fold." 9 And he said, "Let he who has ears, hear." 

10 When he was alone, those around him and the twelve asked about the parables. 11 He said to them, "The mystery of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but to those outside, it is in parables, 12 so that:

> Seeing they will not see, 
> and hearing they will neither hear nor understand,
> or else they would have turned around and been forgiven.

13 He said to them, "Do you not understand that parable? Then how will you understand all of the parables?" 14 The sower sows the word. 15 Those who are sown on the road receive the word, and when they hear it, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. 16 Similarly, those which are sown onto the rocks, when they hear the word, they immediately receive it with joy. 17 But they do not have roots in themselves, and it is short-lived, and then oppression or harassment comes because of the word, and right away they are tripped up. 18 Others are those sown among the thorns: they are those who heard the word, 19 and the worries of life and the fraud of wealth and the desires for other things come in and choke out the word, and they are fruitless. 20 The seeds on the good soil, these are the ones who hear the word and take it in and produce fruit thirty-fold or sixty-fold or a hundred-fold."

21 He said to them, "Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a lamp-stand? 22 For nothing is hidden except to be revealed, and nothing is hidden except so that it comes to light. 23 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear."

24 He said to them, "Pay attention to what you hear. By the standard you have measured it will be measured for you, and even more will be added to that. 25 For to the one who has, it will be given to him, and it will be taken away from the one who has." 26 He said to them, "The kingdom of God is like a man sowing seed on a field. 27 He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows up, he does not know how. 28 The land bears fruit on its own, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain. 29 When the grain is ripe, immediately he uses the sickle, because the harvest has arrived."

30 He said, "How can I explain the kingdom of heaven? What parable should I use for it? 31 It is like a mustard seed; when it is sown onto the ground, 32 it is the smallest of all the seeds on the earth, 32 and when it is sown, it grows up and becomes the greatest of all the garden vegetables and produces large branches, so that birds can make nests in its shade." 33 In many other parables he taught them, just as they were able to hear it. But he did not teach them except in parables, but when he was just him and his disciples he explained everything.

36 As it became late in the day, he spoke to them, "Let us go over to the far side." 36 They left the crowd and took him with them in the boat, just as he was, and other boats were with him. 37 And a great wind storm developed, the waves came over the side of the boat, so that the boat was bogged down. 38 He was in the stern sleeping on a pillow, and they woke him up and said to him, "Teacher! Do you not care that we are being killed?" 39 Awakening, he reprimanded the wind and said to the sea, "Be quiet!" And the wind calmed down, and a great calm settled in. 40 He said to them, "Why are you afraid? Do you still not have faith?" 41 But they were terrified with great fear, and they said to each other, "Who is this that even the wind and the sea obey him?"