# MARK

## 8

1 In those days, again there was a great crowd and they had nothing to eat, and calling together his disciples, he said to them, 2 "I am deeply concerned for the crowd because they have already waited three days and they have had nothing to eat. 3 And if I dismiss them to their homes hungry, they will faint on the way, and some of them are from far off." 4 His disciples answered him, "How can anyone feed these people out here in the desert?" 5 He answered them, "How much bread do you have?" They said to him, "Seven loaves." 6 He called to the crowd to rest on the ground, and taking the seven loaves he blessed them and broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before them, and they gave it to the crowd. 7 And they had a few little fish, and when he had blessed them, he said these should also be set before them. 8 They ate and were stuffed, and they took up seven full baskets of leftover pieces. 9 There were four thousand people, and he let them go. 10 Immediately he embarked in a boat with his disciples and went to the region of Dalmanutha.

11 The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him and sign from heaven and testing him. 12 And he groaned in his spirit, saying, "What is this generation, which seeks a sign? I tell you the truth, no sign will be given to this generation." 13 Leaving them again he went into the boat and went over to the other side.

14 They forgot to bring bread, and they did had only one loaf in the boat. 15 And he ordered them, "Look, beware the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod." 16 And they argued with each other because they had no bread. 17 Knowing what they were thinking, he said to them, "Why are you arguing about not having bread? Do you not yet know or understand? Do you have hardened hearts? 18 'You have eyes but you do not see, and you have ears, but you do not hear.' Do you not remember? 19 When I broke five loaves for five thousand people, how many baskets filled with leftovers did you pick up?" And they said to him, "Seven." 21 And he said to them, "Do you not yet understand?"

22 They came to Bethsaida. And they brought to him a blind man and they begged Jesus to touch him. 23 Taking the hand of the blind man, he brought him out of the village, and after he spat on his eyes and laid hands on him, Jesus asked him, "What do you see?" 24 Looking up, he said, "I see people, but they look like walking trees." 25 Again Jesus laid his hands on his eyes, and he opened his eyes, and he could see again, and he saw everything clearly. 26 Jesus sent him off to his house, saying, "Do not go into the village."

27 Jesus and his disciples went away to the village of Caesarea Philippi. On the way, he asked his disciples, "Who do people say I am?" 28 They said to him, "Some say John the Baptist, others Elijah, and others one of the prophets." 29 He asked them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered him, "You are the Christ." 30 He ordered them no to talking anyone about him.

31 He began to teach them that it is necessary for the son of man to suffer many things and to be rejected by the elders and high priests and scribes, and to be killed, and to rise again after three days. 32 He spoke to them clearly. 33 And Peter pulled him aside and rebuked him, 33 but Jesus turned around and saw his disciples and he corrected Peter and said, "Get behind me, Satan, because you are not thinking about the things of God but the things of men."

34 And he called the crowd near him with his disciples, and he said to them, "If anyone wishes to come after me, let him reject himself and pick up his cross and follow me. 35 For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life because of me and my gospel will save it. 36 For what does it benefit someone if he gains the whole world and loses his soul? 37 For what can a man give in exchange for his soul? 38 For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the son of God will be ashamed of him when he comes of the glory of his father with the holy angels."