# MARK

## 9

1 He said to them, "Truly I say to you that some of those standing here will not taste death until they see the kingdom of heaven coming in its glory."

2 After six days, Jesus took aside Peter and James and John, and he took them up to a high mountain by themselves. And he was transformed in front of them, 3 and his clothes became brilliant shining white, more brilliant than any cloth-maker on earth would be able to bleach them. 4 Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking together with Jesus. 5 Peter said to Jesus, "Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah," 6 for he did not know what he what he had asked, for they were afraid. 7 And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the heavens said, "This is my beloved son; listen to him!" 8 Suddenly they looked around and did not see anyone with him, just Jesus by himself. 9 When they went down from the mountain, he ordered them not to describe what they had seen to anyone, until the son of man was raised from the dead. 10 So they kept it to themselves, wondering about the rising from the dead, 11 and they asked him and said, "Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?" 12 He said to them, "Elijah comes first to to restore everything, and how is it written that the son of man will suffer many things and be hated? 13 But I say to you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they wanted to, just it is written about him.

14 When they disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and the scribes were arguing with them. 15 Immediately the whole crowd saw him and were amazed, and they came to him and welcomed him. 16 He corrected them, "Why are you arguing among yourselves?" 17 One of the crowd answered him, "Teacher, I brought my son to you, who has a spirit that makes him unable to speak. 18 And whenever it takes hold of him it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and stiffens up. I asked your disciples to expel the demon, and they were not strong enough." 19 He answered them, "Faithless generation, how long will I be with you? How long will I put up with you? Bring him to me." 20 They brought him to Jesus. When the spirit saw him, it immediately sent him into convulsions, and he fell on the ground and rolled around, foaming at the mouth. 21 He said to the boy's father, "How long has this been happening to him?" He said, "Since he was a child, 22 and many times it has thrown him into the fire and into the water to destroy him, but if you can do anything, feel pity for us and help us." 23 Jesus said to him, "If you can? All things are possible to the one who believes." 24 Immediately the father of the child cried out, "I believe! Help my unbelief!" 25 When Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying, "Mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again." 26 It cried out and convulsed him and it went out, and the boy was like a corpse so that most of them said he was dead. 27 Jesus took his hand and lifted him up, and he stood up. 28 And when his disciples went into a house by themselves, they asked him, "We were we not able to throw it out of him?" 29 He said to them, "This type cannot be driven out except by prayer."

30 Leaving there they went along through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to know, 31 for he taught his disciples and he said to them, "The son of man is deliver into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and three days after dying, he will rise up." 32 They did not understand what he said, and they were afraid to ask.

33 They came to Capernaum, and when they were inside the house, he asked them, "What were you debating on the way?" 34 They were silent, for they had argued among each other on the way about who was greater. 35 He sat down and spoke to the twelve, saying, "If anyone wishes to be first, he will be last of all and servant to all." 36 Taking a child, he stood him in the middle of them and, taking him in his arms, said to them, 37 "Whoever receives one of these children in my name, receives me, and whoever receives me, does not receive me, but the one who sent me." 

38 John said to him, "Teacher, we saw someone throwing out demons in your name, and we stopped him, for he did not followed us." 39 Jesus said, "Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will also be able to abuse me right afterwards. 40 For whoever is not against us, is for us.  41 And whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you Christ's, I tell you the truth that he will not lose his reward.

42 "And if anyone trips up one of these little ones who believe, it would be better if instead a great millstone were hung around his neck and he would be thrown into the sea. 43 And if your hand trips you up, cut it off, for it is better for you to go into life deformed than to go to hell with two hands, to the unquenchable fire. 45 And if your foot trips you up, cut it off, for it is better to go into life limping than to have two feet and be thrown into hell. 47 If your eye trips you up, pluck it out. It is better to enter the kingdom of heaven one-eyed than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell, 48 where the worm never dies and the fire is never quenched. 49 For everyone will be salted with fire. 50 Salt is good, but if the salt has become bland, how will you salt it again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with yourselves."