# MARK

## 12

1 He began to speak to them in parables: "A man planted a vineyard, and he put up a fence and dug a wine-press and build a tower, and he leave it to farmers, and he went on a trip. 2 And at the harvest he sent a servant to the farmers, so that he could take from them some of the fruit from the vineyard. 3 They took him and beat him and sent him back with nothing. 4 Again he sent them another servant, and this one they he on the head and mistreated. 5 And he sent another, and they killed this one, and many others, some they beat and some they killed. 6 Still he had one left, a beloved son, and he sent him to them last of all, saying, 'They will respect my son.' 7 These farmers said to him, 'This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.' 8 They took him and killed him, and they threw him out of the vineyard. 9 What will the master of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the farmers, and he will give the vineyard to others. 10 Have you not read this scripture?

> The stone that the builders rejected,
> has become the cornerstone.
> 11 This happened because of the Lord,
> and it is wondrous in our eyes.

12 And they sought to seize him, but they feared the crowd, for they knew that the parable he said was for them. They left him and went away.

13 They sent to him some of the Pharasees and Herodians so that they catch him in an argument. 14 They came and said to him, "Teacher, we know that you are true and not concerned about anyone's opinions, for you do not look at the appearance of men, but in truth you teach the way of God. Is it permissable to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay it, or not?" 15 He saw their hypocrisy and said to them, "Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius so that I can see it." 16 And they brought it. He said to them, "Whose image is engraved on it?" They said to him, "Caesar." 17 Jesus said, "Give Caesar's possessions to Caesar and God's possessions to God." And they were amazed at him.

18 And the Saducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him and asked him, 19 "Teacher, Moses wrote to us 'If a man's brother dies and leaves behind a wife, but does not leave a child, his brother should take the woman and raise up children for his brother.' 20 There were seven brothers, and the first took a wife, and he died and did not leave children, 21 and the second married her, and he did without children, and the third as well. 22 And the seventh did not leave children, and last of all the woman died. 23 In the resurrection whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as a wife." 24 Jesus said to them, "Are you not mislead because of this: you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God? 25 For when they rise from the dead, they will not marry, but they will be like the angels in heaven. 26 And concerning the dead they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses about the bush, how God spoke to him and said, 'I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.' 27 God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are greatly misled."

28 One of the scribes came up and heard them arguing together, and he saw that Jesus had answered them well, and he asked Jesus, "Which commandment is the most important of all?" 29 Jesus answered him, "The most important is, 'Hear, Israel, the Lord our God the Lord is one,' 30 and 'You shall love the Lord your God with your whole heart and your whole soul and all your thoughts and all your strength." 31 Second is ,"You shall love your neighbor like you love yourself." There is no other commandment greater than these. 32 The scribes said to him, "Well done, teacher, you have truthfully said that God is one, and that there is no other beside him, 33 and to love him with your whole heart and with all of your intelligence and all of your strength, and to love your neighbor like you love yourself, and that this is much greater than all of the offerings and sacrifices." 34 Jesus saw that he answered well and said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of God." No longer did anyone dare to ask him any questions.

35 Jesus taught them in the temple and said, "How do the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David? 36 David himself, in the Holy Spirit, said,

> The Lord said to my Lord,
> sit at my right hand,
> until I will put your enemies underneath your feet.

37 "David himself calls him, "Lord", and how is he also his son?" And the entire crowd heard him with delight.

38 In his teaching he said, "Watch out for the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and to receive greetings in the market, 39 and to have the best seats at the synagogues and the place of honor at banquets, 40 who eat up the homes of widows and pray long and pretentiously. They will receive the greater judgment."

41 As he sat across from the treasury, he watched how the crowd put money into the it, and many rich people put in lots of money. 42 A poor widow came and put in two coins, which together make up a penny. 43 He called together his disciples and said to them, "Truly I say to you that this poor widow put in the greatest of all those who put money into the treasury, 44 for everyone put in money out of their excess, but in her neediness she put in everything she had, her entire living.