# MARK

## 14

1 It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of the Unleavened Bread. 2 And the high-priests and the scribes were seeking how to secretly arrest him and kill him, 2 for they said, "Not during the festival, or else there will be a commotion among the people."

3 Jesus was in Bethany, at the house of Simon the leper, sitting at the table, and a woman came to him who had an alabaster jar of perfume made of very expensive pure nard, and she smashed the jar and poured it over his head. 4 Some of them were upset and said to themselves, "Why was the perfume wasted? 5 For this perfume could have been sold for over thirty denarii and given to the poor," and they were snorting at her in rebuke. Jesus said, "Allow her. Why do you bother her? For it is a good work to do this to me. 7 For you will always have the poor with you, but whenever you want you are able to do good to them, but you will not always have me. 8 She has done what she could, she has anointed my body in advance for burial. 9 Truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is announced in the whole world, she who has done this will be spoken of as a reminder of her." 

10 And Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, left to go to the high priests so that he might betray Jesus to them. 11 When they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, and he sought the right time to betray him.

12 On the first day of the Feast of the Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the passover lamb, his disciples said to him, "Where do you want us to go and prepare the passover meal?" 13 And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, "Go to the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. 14 And whatever building he enter into, say to the master of the house that the teacher says, 'Where is my inn where I may eat my passover meal with my disciples?' 15 And he will show you an upper room, furnished and prepared. Make things ready there for us." 16 The disciples went out and went to the city and found that it was just as he said to them, and they prepared the Passover meal.

17 When it became late, he came with the twelve. 18 When they sat down and ate, Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you that one of you who eats with me will betray me." 19 They became greatly upset and said to him one by one, "Not I?" 20 He said to them, "One of the twelve, the one who is dipping his bread in the bowl with me. 21 For the son of man goes as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the son of man is betrayed! It is better for him if that man were not even born." 

22 As they were eating, he took the bread, blessed it, broke it and gave it to them, saying, "Lake, this is my body." 23 And taking the cup, he blessed it and gave it to them, and all of them drank from it. 24 He said to them, "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. 25 Truly I say to you that I will not drink from the fruit of the vine at all until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God."

26 After they sang a song, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 27 Jesus said to them, "You will all stumble, for as it is written, 'Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.' 28 But after the resurrection, I will go before you to Galilee." 29 Peter said to him, "Even if everyone stumbles, I will not." 30 Jesus said to him, "Truly I say to you that tonight, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times." 31 But Peter said emphatically, "If I have to die with you, I will not deny you." All of them said the same thing.

32 And they went to a region called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray." 33 He took with him Peter and James and John, and he began to be upset and troubled. 34 He said to them, "My soul is very sad, even unto death. Remain here and keep awake." 35 And going a little ahead of them, he fell down on the ground, and he prayed that if it were possible, that the hour might pass from him. 36 He said, "Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Take this cup from me, but not what I want, but what you want." 37 He came and found them sleeping, and he said to Simon Peter, "Are you sleeping? Are you not strong enough to stay awake for one hour? 38 Stay awake and pray, so that you will not come into the temptation. The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak." 39 Again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. 40 Again he came back and found them sleeping, for their eyes getting heavy, and they did not know what to say to him. 41 A third time he came and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come - look! - the son of man is being delivered into the hands of sinnners. 42 Get up, let's go, for the betrayed is coming near."

43 Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, was alongside them and with him was a crowd with swords and clubs, the high priest and the scribes and the elders. 44 The betrayer gave them a signal, saying, "The one whom I kiss is he; seize him and take him away under guard." 45 Immediately Judas came up to him and said, "Rabbi," and he kissed him. 46 And they threw their hands on him and arrested him. 47 One of those standing beside him drew his sword and struck the high-priest's servant and cut off his ear. 48 Jesus said to them, "Have you come to me to arrest me like a robber, with swords and clubs? 49 Every day I was teaching in front of you in the temple and you did not arrest me, but so that the scriptures are fulfilled." 50 And they all left him and fled.

51 A young man followed them, wearing a linen-cloth on his body, and they seized him, 52 but he left behind the linen-cloth and fled.

53 They brought Jesus to the high priest, and all the high priests and elders and scribes came with them. 54 Peter followed him from a long way off until they went into the courtyard of the high priest, and he was sitting with the guards, and warming himself by the fire. 55 The high priests and all of the Sanhedrin sought a witness against Jesus to kill him, but they did not find one. 56 For many testified falsely against him, but their testimonies were not the same. 57 Some of them stood up and lied about him, saying, 58 "We heard him saying, 'I will destroy this hand-made temple and in three days I will build another not made by hand.'" 59 But even in this way their testimony did not agree.

60 The high priest stood up in the middle of them and asked Jesus, "Do you not answer anything? What is it that they testify against you?" 61 But he was silent, and he did not answer at all. Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the son of the blessed one?" 62 Jesus said, "I am, and you will see the son of man seated at the right hand of the mighty one and coming with the clouds of heaven." 63 The high priest tore his clothes and said, "What need do we have for witnesses? 64 Have you heard this blasphemy? What does it seem to you?" And all of them condemned him to a sentence of death. 65 Some of them began to spit on him, and to cover his face and to hit him, saying, "Prophesy!" And the guards took him with beatings.

66 As Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant-girls of the high priests came to him, 67 and seeing Peter warming himself by the fire, looked him in the face and said, "You were with Jesus of Nazareth." 68 He denied it, saying, "I neither know nor understand what you are saying." And he went out to the gateway. 69 The servant girl saw him and began again to say to the people sitting there, "He is one of them." 70 Again he denied it. And after a little while, again those sitting there said to Peter, "Honestly, are you one of them, for you are a Galileean." 71 He began to curse and to swear, saying, "I do not know this man you are talking about." 72 Immediately a rooster crowed a second time, and Peter was reminded of the word which Jesus had said to him, that before the rooster would crow twice, he would deny Jesus three times, and he fell down and wept.