# MARK

## 16

1 After the Sabbath passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Jacob and Salome bought aromatic herbs so that they could go and anoint him. 2 Very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen.  3 And they said to themselves, "Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?" 4 They looked up and saw that the stone was rolled away - it was very large - 5 and they entered the tomb and saw a young man sitting on the right, dressed in a white robe, and they were astonished. 6 He said to them, "Do not be surprised: you seek the Nazarene who was crucified. Arise, he is not here, look at the place where they laid him. 7 But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he has gone ahead of you to Galilee. You will see him there, just as he said to you." 8 They went out and ran away from the tomb, for they were taken by trembling and astonishment, and they said nothing to no one, for they were afraid.

9 When he arose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. 10 She went and told this to those who were with him, as they mourned and cried. 11 When they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it.

12 After these things happened, he appeared in another form to two of them walking in the country. 13 They went out and told it to the rest, but they did not believe.

14 Later on, he appeared to the eleven while they were reclining at the table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who saw him after he rose. 15 He said to them, "Go to whole world and preach the gospel to all creation. 16 He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be condemned. 17 These signs will follow those who believe: they will cast out demons in my name, they will speak in tongues, 18 they will pick up snakes with their hands, and if they drink any fatal poison, it will not harm them. They will lay hands on the sick and they will recover. 19 Therefore the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God. 20 And these people went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord helped them and confirmed their message through accompanying signs.