# LUKE

## 2

1 In those days a decrease came from Caesar Augustus to register every household. 2 (That was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria.) 3 And everyone came out to be registered, each to his own city. 4 Joseph went up from Galilee to the city of Nazareth in Judea to city of David which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, 5 to be registered with Mary his fiancee, who was pregnant. 6 While they were there, the time came for her to give birth, 7 and she bore her first-born son, and she swaddled him and placed him in a manger, because there was no space for them in the inn. 

8 And there were in that country shepherds living in the fields and keeping watch at night over their sheep. 9 And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone all around them, and they were completely terrified. 10 The angel said to them, "Do not fear, for - look! - I am bring you good news of great joy which is for everyone, 11 because today a savior was born to you in the city of David who is Christ the Lord. 12 And this will be a sign to you, you will find the baby swaddled and lying in a manger." 13 And suddenly there was with the angel a great heavenly army praising God and saying, "Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace and satisfaction to men!"

15 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to each other, "Let us go through to Bethlehem and see this thing which has happened which the Lord has made known to us." 16 They went in a hurry and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in the manger, 17 and when they saw it, they made known what was said to them concerning this child. 18 When everyone heard it, they were amazed by what the shepherds said to them, 19 but Mary saved up these words, putting them together in her heart. 20 And the shepherd returned, giving glory and praise to God, and everyone who heard them said that it was just as it had been said to them.

21 And after eight days he was circumcised, and he was named John, the name he was given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.

22 When the time of the purification according to the law of Moses arrived, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, 23 (as it is written in the law of the Lord, "Every male who opens the womb of his mother will be called holy by the Lord.") 24 and to give the sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle-doves or two young pigeons. 25 And man was in Jerusalem named Simeon, and this man was just and reverent, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. 26 And he received a prophecy from the Holy Spirit that he would not see death until he saw the Lord's Christ. 27 And he came in the Spirit to the temple, and when the parents brought the child Jesus into the temple to do for him according to the custom of the law, Simeon took him in his arms and blessed God and said:

> 29 Lord, now you are allowing your servant to depart in peace
> according to your word,
> 30 because my eyes have seen my salvation,
> 31 which you have prepared in front of all peoples,
> 32 a light for revelation to the outsiders,
> and for glory to your people Israel.

33 His father and mother were amazed at what was said concerning him, 34 and Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, "This child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel and for a sign that is opposed (and a sword will go through your own soul), so that thoughts from many hearts will be uncovered." 36 And in that place was Anna, a prophetess, daughter of Phanuel, from the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when he was a virgin, 37 and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not leave the temple, serving with fasting and prayer night and day, 38 and as that time came she gave thanks to God and told everyone who was waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.

39 When everything was accomplished according to the law of the Lord, they return to Galilee to their own city of Nazareth.

40 And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him.

41 Every year, his parents went to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover. 42 And when he was twelve years old, 43 they went up according to custom, and when the feast was finished, they returned, but the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem. 44 Thinking that he was in the caravan, they went a day's journey and sought him out among his relatives and acquaintances, 45 and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for him. 46 After three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the middle of the teachers and listening to them and asking them questions. 47 Everyone who heard him was astonished at his intelligence and his answers, 48 and when they saw him they were amazed, and his mother said to him, "Child, why did you do this to us? Look, your father and I have been looking for you and were very upset." 49 He said to them, "Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I have to be in my father's house?" 50 They did not understand what he had said to them, 51 and he went down with them to Nazareth, and he was submissive to them. His mother paid attention to all these things in her heart.

52 And Jesus advanced in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.