# LUKE

## 3

1 In the fifteenth year of the rule of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was the ruler Judea, and Herod was the tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was the tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene, 2 and Annas and Caiaphas were the high priests, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness. 3 And he went to every surrounding area of the Jordan, preaching baptism and repentance for the forgiveness of sins, 4 as it is written in the book of Isaiah the prophet:

> A voice crying out in the wilderness,
> prepare the way of the Lord,
> make straight his paths.
> 5 Every ravine will be filled in,
> and every mountain and hill will be leveled.
> The tangled ways will be made straight,
> and the rough place will be smoothed into roads,
> 6 and all flesh will see the salvation of God.

7 Therefore he spoke by the crowd that had come out to be baptized, "Litter of snakes! Who told you to flee from the looming wrath? 8 Produce fruit that is fitting for repentance; and do not begin to say among yourself, 'We have Abraham as our father,' for I say to you that God is able to raise up from these stones children of Abraham. 9 Already the ax is laid to the root of the trees; therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit will be chopped down and thrown into the fire." 

10 The crowd asked him, "What should we do?" 11 He answered them, "Let him who has two tunics give to the one who has none, and let him who has food do the same thing. 12 Tax-collectors also came to be baptized by him and they said to him, "Teacher, what shall we do?" 13 He said to them, "Collect no more than you are authorized to do." 14 But soldiers asked him, "What shall we do?" And he said to them, "Do not shake people down or extort them by false charges, and be satisfied with your wages."

15 The people were expectant, and everyone was wondering in their hearts about John, whether he might be the Christ. 16 John answered everyone, "I baptize you with water. But he who is greater than me is coming, and I am not fit to untie the straps of his sandals. He will baptize you with in the Holy Spirit and in fire. 17 His winnowing-fork is in his hand, to clear out his threshing floor and to gather together the wheat into his barn, and the chaff will be burned up in an unquenchable fire."

18 With many other commands he preached the crowd, 19 but Herod the tetrarch, who had been shamed by John for Herodias the wife of his brother and many other evil things which he had done, 20 added one more offense to all of these: he locked John in prison.

21 When all of the people were baptized, and Jesus had also been baptized and was praying, heaven was opened, 22 and the Holy Spirit came down to him in physical form, like a dove, and a voice came from heaven saying, "You are my beloved son, I am delighted in you." 

23 Jesus, when he began his ministry at the age of about thirty, was the son (it is supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli, 24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, 25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, 26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda, 27 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 28 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er, 29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 30 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim, 31 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, 32 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon, 33 the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, 34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 35 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, 36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, 37 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan, 38 the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.