# LUKE

## 5

1 It happened in that time that a crowd was pressing in to hear the word of God, and he was seated alongside the lake of Gennesaret. 2 He saw two boats sitting by the lake, but the fishermen had left and were cleaning their nets. 3 Stepping into one of the boats, which was owned by Simon, he asked him to push off a bit from land, and he sat down and taught the crowd from the ship. 4 When he stopped speaking, he said to Simon, "Push out into the deep water and drop your nets for a catch." 5 Simon answered, "Master, we have worked all night and have not caught anything, but at your word I will put down the nets." 6 When they had done this, they caught a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. 7 They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them, and they came, and they filled up the other boat so that they began to sink. 8 When Simon Peter saw this, he fell down at Jesus's knees and said, "Go away from me, because I am a sinful man, Lord!" 9 For astonishment overcame him and all who were with him at the catch of fish which they gathered together, 10 and so also were, James and John, the son of Zebedee, who were partners of Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, "Do not be afraid. Starting right now you will be catching men." 11 And when they brought their boats to shore, they left everything and followed him. 

12 And it happened that he was in one of the cities and saw a man full of leprosy; when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged him, "Lord, if you are willing, you can cleanse me." 13 He stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, "I are willing; be cleansed." And immediately the leprosy left him. 14 And Jesus command him to speak to no one, but "Go away and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing as Moses command as a witness for them." 15 Now even more word spread about him, and a great crowd gathered to hear him and to be healed from their sicknesses. 16 But he was withdrawing to the wilderness and praying.

17 One day, he was teaching, and Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from the whole area of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. And the healing power of the Lord was on him. 18 And some men were bringing a man on a bed who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to bring him and place him before Jesus. 19 But they did not find him anyway to bring him in through the crowd, and they went up on top of the house and brought him down through the roof into their midst on his bed, in front of Jesus. 20 Seeing their faith, he said, "Man, your sins are forgiven." 21 The scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, "Who is this who speaks blasphemy? Who can forgive sins except God alone?" 22 Jesus knew their arguments and answered them, "Why do you debate in your hearts? 23 What is easier? To say say, 'Your sins are forgiven', or to say, 'Arise and walk.' 24 But so that you may see that the son of man has power on earth to forgive sins" - he said to the paralytic - "I say to you, arise and take up your bed and go to your house." 25 Right away he stood up in front of them, took up the bed he was seated on, and went to his house giving glory to God. 26 And amazement took them all, and they glorified God, and they were filled with fear, saying, "We have seen something incredible today."

27 After this happened, he left and he saw a tax-collector named Levi sitting at the customs-house, and he said to him, "Follow me." 28 Leaving everything behind, he followed him. 29 Levi put on a big reception for him in his house, and a great crowd of tax collectors and others who were sitting with them. 30 The Pharisees and scribes were grumbling to his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with tax-collectors and sinners?" 31 Jesus answered them, "Healthy people have no need of a doctor, but the sick. 32 I have no come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." 

33 They said to him, "John's disciples fast often and pray, just like the disciples of the Pharisees, but your disciples eat and drink." 34 Jesus said to them, "Can you make wedding guests fast while the bride-groom is with them? 35 But the days are coming when the bride-groom will be taken away, and then they will fast at that time." 36 He told them a saying, "No one tears a piece off a new garment and uses it to patch an old garment; otherwise the new piece will tear away and and the new patch will not match the old garment. 37 No one puts new wine in old wine-skins; otherwise the new wine-skin will burst the wine-skins, and it will pour out and the wine-skins will be ruined. 38 But one must put new wine into new wine-skins. 39 And no one who drinks old wine wants the new, for he says, 'The old is good.'"