# LUKE

## 6

1 On the Sabbath it happened that he was going through the fields, and his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. 2 Some of the Pharisees said, "Why do you do what is not permissible on the Sabbath?" 3 Jesus answered them, "Have you not read what David and those who were with him did when they were hungry, 4 how he went into the house of God and took the bread of the Presence (which is not permissible to eat except for the priests) and ate it and gave it to those who were with him?" 5 And he said to them, "The son of man is Lord of the Sabbath."

6 On another Sabbath he entered into the synagogue and taught, and a man was there, and his right hand was withered. 7 The scribes and the Pharisees watched closely whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they could find an accusation against him. 8 But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, "Get up and stand in front of us." And he got up and stood there. 9 Jesus said to them, "I ask you whether it is permissible to do good or evil on the Sabbath, to save life, or to destroy it?" 10 When he looked around at all of them, he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he did it, and his hand was restored. 11 And they were filled with fury and talked with each other about what they would do with Jesus.

12 It happened in those days that he left and went out to the mountain to pray, and he was passing the night praying to God. 13 When it became day, he called to his disciples, and he selected twelve from among them, who he named apostles: 14 Simon who was called Peter, Andrew his brother, James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, 15 Matthew, Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon who was called the Zealot, 16 Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the betrayer.

17 After he came down with them, he sat down on a flat place, and a great crowd of his disciples were there, as well as a great multitude of people from all of Judea and Jerusalem and from seaside Tyre and Sidon. 18 They came to hear him and to be healed from their diseases, and they healed those who were troubled by unclean spirits, 19 and the entire crowd was seeking to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all. 20 And he lifted up his eyes to his disciples and said:

"Blessed are you beggars, for the kingdom of heaven is yours. 21 Blessed are you who are hungry, for you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you will laugh. 22 Blessed are you when people hate you, and when they reject you and insult you and dismiss your name as evil because of the son of man. 23 Rejoice and leap, for - look! - your reward is great in heaven.

> 24 But woe to you who are rich, because you already have your consolation. 
> 25 Woe to you, who are now filled up, for you will be hungry.
> Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.
> 26 Woe to you when everyone speaks well of you, because their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.

27 "But I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 28 bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. 29 To the one who strikes you on your cheek, offer him the other one, and from the one who takes your cloak do not withhold your tunic. 30 Give to everyone who asks, and from the one who takes what is yours, do not ask for it back. 31 Do to others just as you would want people to do to you. 32 If you love those who love you, what benefit is that for you? For even the sinners love those who love them. 33 If you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that? Even the sinners do the same thing. 34 If you lend only when you expect to get it back, what benefit is that? The sinners lends to sinners so that they can take back the same amount. 

35 "But love your enemies and do do good and lend, not expecting anything. And your reward will be great, and you will be a son of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked. 36 Be merciful, as your father is merciful. 

37 "And do not judge, or else you will be judged. Do not condemn, or else you will be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. 38 Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken up, overflowing, will be put into your lap. For by the standard that you have measured it will be measured against you."

39 He told them a parable, "Can a blind person lead a blind person, or will both of them will fall into a ditch? 40 A disciple is not above his teacher, but when he fully developed everyone will be like his teacher. 41 Why do you see the speck in your brother's eye, but you do not notice the beam in your own eye? 42 How are you able to say to your brother, 'Allow me to take the speck out of your eye,' not seeing the beam which is in your eye? Hypocrite, first take the beam out of your eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.

43 "For no good tree bears rotten fruit, nor does a rotten tree bear good fruit. For each tree is known by its fruit. 44 Figs are not gathered from thorn-bushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. 45 A good good man produces goodness from the good treasure of his heart, and an evil man produces evil out of his evil heart. For from the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks. 

46 "Why do you call me, 'Lord, lord', and not do what I say? 47 Everyone who comes to me and hear my words and does them, I will show you what they are like. 48 It is like a man who builds his house who digs and goes deep and sets his foundation on a rock. When a flood came, the river beat against that house and could not shake it, because it had a strong foundation. 49 But anyone who hears my words and does not do them is like is like a man who established his house on the land without a foundation. When the river beat against it, it immediately collapsed. And the ruin of that house was great."