# LUKE

## 7

1 When he finished saying all these things in the hearing of the people, he went into Capernaum.

2 Now a certain servant of a centurion was sick and about to die, and the servant was highly valued by the centurion. 3 When he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. 4 When they came to Jesus, they were asking for help from him gravely, saying, "He is worthy of this provision from you, 5 for he loves our people, and he build a synagogue for us," 6 and Jesus came with them. When he was still a long way from the house, the centurion sent friends who said to him, "Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy for you to come under my roof. 7 Therefore I do not have a right for you to come, but say the word, and my servant will be healed. 8 For I am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to this man, 'Go,' and he goes, and to another, 'Come,' and he comes, and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it." 9 When he heard these things, Jesus was amazed at him, and he turned to his followers and said to the crowd, "I say to you, I have not found faith like this even in Israel." 10 When those who he had sent returned to the house they found the servant in good health.

11 Afterwards he went into a city called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd came with him. 12 As he came near to the gate of the city, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a great crowd was with her. 13 Seeing her, the Lord was deeply moved for her and said to her, "Do not weep." 14 Going up to her, he touched the coffin, and the pall-bearers stood still, and he said, "Young man, I say to you, arise." 15 And the dead man rose up and started to speak, and Jesus gave the man to his mother. 16 But everyone was terrified, and they were glorifying God, saying, "A great prophet has risen up among us," and "God has visited his people." 17 And this report about him went out went out into all of Judea and into all the surrounding regions.

18 The disciples of John brought news of all of these things to him, and John summoned two of his disciples, 19 and sent them to the Lord to say, "Are you the one who is coming, or should we expect another?" 20 When the men had come to him they said, "John the Baptist sent us to you to say: Are you the one who is coming, or should we expect another?" 21 At that time he was healing many of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and he gave sight to many blind people. 22 Jesus answered them, "Go and report back to John what you have seen and heard: the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, the dead arise, and the poor hear the good news. 23 And blessed is the one who is not tripped up by me." 24 When John's messengers went away, he began to the crowd about John: "What did you come out to the wilderness to see, a reed shaking in the wind? 25 But what did you come to see, a man dressed in soft clothing? Look, those who are in notable clothing are in the courts of kings. 26 What did you come out to see, a prophet? Yes, I say to you, more than a prophet. 27 It is written about him:

> I send my messenger before your face,
> who will prepare the way before you.

28 I say to you, no one born of women is greater than John, but the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. 29 When all the people heard this (and the tax collectors too) they declared that God is just, being baptized with the baptism of John, 30 but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, not being baptized by him.

31 To what therefore will I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? 32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another:

> We played the flute for you, and you did not dance,
> we sang a funeral song for you, and you did not weep.

33 "For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you said, 'He has a demon.' 34 The son of man has come eating and drink, and you say, "Look, a glutton and a drunk, a friend of tax-collectors and sinners. 35 And wisdom is justified by all its children."

36 One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with them, and going into the Pharisee's house he sat down at the table. 37 And a woman who was in the city, a sinner, when she learned that he was seated at a table in the house of the Pharisee, brought an alabaster jar of perfume 38 and stood behind him at his feet, weeping, and she began to wet his feet with her tears and wipe them off with her hair, and she kissed his feet and poured perfume on them. 39 When the Pharisee who invited him saw this, he said to himself, "If this man is a prophet, he would know what sort of woman this is who is touching him, because she is a sinner."

40 Jesus answered him him, "Simon, I have something to say to you." "Say it, teacher," he said. A certain moneylender had two debtors: 41 one owed five hundred denarii and the other fifty. 42 When neither of them had the money, he offered to forgive both of them. Therefore which of them will love him more?" 43 Simon said, "I suppose the one to whom the greater debt was forgiven." And Jesus said to him, "You have judged correctly." 

44 Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, "Do you see this woman? I came into your house, and you did not give me water for my feet, but she wet them with her tears and wiped them with her hair. 45 You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not stopped kissing my feet. 46 You did not anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume. 47 Therefore I say to you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, because she loved much, but the one who is forgiven a few things loves only a little bit." 48 He said to her, "Your sins are forgiven." 49 And those who were sitting with him began to say among themselves, "Who is this who forgives sins?" 50 But he said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you. Go in peace."