# LUKE

## 8

1 Afterwards he traveled through cities and villages preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him, 2 and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and illnesses, Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons came out, 3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's majordomo, and many others, who supplied him from their possessions.

4 When a great crowd was gathering and people came from many towns he spoke to them through a parable: 5 "A planter went out to sow his seed, and while he was sowing, some fellow on the road, and it was trampled and the birds of the air ate it. 6 Other seed fell on the rock, and as it grew it dried up, because it lacked moisture. 7 Other seed fell in the middle of the thorns, and when it grew together with the thorns, the thorns choked it out. 8 And other seed fell on good soil, and it grew and produced fruit a hundred times over." As he said these things, he said, "He who has ears, let him hear."

9 When his disciples asked him what this parable meant, 10 he said, "It is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest of them only in parables, so that seeing they will not see and hearing they will not understand. 11 This is the meaning of the parable: The seed is the word of God. 12 The seed which was on the road is those who heard, and the devil comes and takes the word from their hearts, so they will not believe and be saved. 13 The seed which fell on the rock are those receive the word with joy when they hear it, but they have no roots, they believe for a time but they fall away in the time of testing. 14 The one which falls among the thorns is those who heard it, and when the worries and wealth and the pleasures of life come they are squeezed and their fruit does not ripen. 15 The ones on the good ground are those hear the word and hold it fast in their beautiful and good heart and they produce fruit in endurance.

16 "No one lights a lamp and then covers it with a jar or puts it under the bed, but on a lamp-stand, so that anyone who enters the room will see the light. 17 For nothing is hidden which will not be revealed, nor is anything secret which will not be made known and come to light. 18 Watch how you hear, therefore, for whoever has, it will be given to him, and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken away from him.

19 His mother and his brothers came to him, and they were not able to meet up with him, because of the crowd. 20 And it was reported to him, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you." 21 He said to them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."

22 One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us go to the other side of the sea," so they left. 23 Sailing along, he fell asleep, and a wind-storm  came down on the sea, and they will filling with water and in a dangerous situation. 24 Going to him, they woke him up, saying, "Master, master, we are dying!" But he awoke and rebuked the wind and the swell of the sea, and they came to rest, and it became calm.

25 He said to them, "Where is your faith?" But they were terrified and were amazed, saying to each other, "Who is this, for he commands the wind and the sea, and they obey him?"

26 They sailed into the region of the Gerasenes, which is across from Galilee. 27 When Jesus had disembarked onto the land, he met a man from the city who had a demon. For a long time he did not wear clothes, and he did not live in a house, but among the tombs. 28 When he saw Jesus he cried out and fell down before him and with a loud voice said, "What am I to you, John son of the Most High? I beg you, do not torture me." 29 For he had ordered the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (Many times it had seized him, and he was kept under guard and tied up with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and the spirit drove him into the wilderness.)

30 Jesus asked him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion", because many demons had entered him. 31 They were begging him not to order them to leave and go into the abyss. 32 In that place there was a large herd of pigs feeding on the hill, and they asked that he command them to go into the pigs, and he complied. 33 When the demons came out from the man they entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the ledge into the sea and drowned.

34 When the herders saw what had happened they fled and told the story in the city and in the country, 35 and they were coming out to see what happened and they came to Jesus, and they found the man from whom the demons left, clothed, and of sound mind, seated at the feet of Jesus, and they were afraid. 36 Those who saw how the demon-possessed man was saved reported to them. 37 And all the people of the surrounding region of the Gerasenes asked him to depart from them, because they were seized with great fear. So Jesus got into the boat and set out. 38 But the man from whom the demons came out begged him to be with him, but Jesus sent him off, saying, 39 "Return to your house, and tell how much God has done for you," and he left, announcing throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him.

40 When Jesus returned, the crowd received him, for they were all expecting him. 41 And a man came by the name of Jairus, and he was the ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at the feet of Jesus and begged him to go to his house, 42 because his only daughter was about twelve years old and she was dying.

As he went the crowd squeezed him. 43 And there was a woman who had a hemorrhage for twelve years, and though she spent all her income on doctors, no one was able to heal her. 44 She came up behind him and touched the hem of his cloak, and the flow of her blood was immediately stopped. 45 Jesus said, "Who touched me?" When everyone denied it, Peter said, "Master, the crowd is all around you and is squeezing together." 46 But Jesus said, "Someone touched me, for I noticed that power has gone out from me." 47 When the woman saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling and falling down before him and said in front of all the people why she had touched him, and how immediately she was healed. 48 He said to her, "Daughter, your faith has saved you; go in peace."

49 While they were still talking, someone came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue saying, "Your daughter has died, do not bother the teacher any longer." 50 When Jesus heard this, he said to him, "Do not be afraid, just believe, and she will be saved." 51 When he came to the house, Jesus did not allow anyone to enter with him except Peter and John and James and the father and mother of the child. 52 Everyone was weeping and beating their chests. But Jesus said, "Do not weep, for she is not dead, but asleep." 53 And they mocked him, because they knew she was dead. 54 But taking her hand, he said to her, "Child, get up." 55 And her spirit returned, and she got up at once, and he asked that she be given something to eat. 56 Her parents were baffled, but he enjoined them not to tell anyone what happened.