# LUKE

## 10

1 After these things the Lord set apart seventy-two others and sent them two by two before him in every city and place where he was about to go. 2 He said to them, "The harvest is great, but the words are few. Therefore beg the Lord of the harvest that he may produce workers for his harvest. 3 Go. I send you as sheep among wolves. 4 Do not take a purse, nor a wallet, nor sandals, and do not greet anyone on the road. 5 Whichever house I send you to, first say, 'Peace be upon this house.' 6 And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon that house. If a son of peace is not there, your peace will return to you. 7 But stay in the same house, eating and drinking with is theirs, for a worker is deserving of his reward. Do not pass from house to house. 8 Whichever city receives you when you enter it, 9 eat what they put before you, and heal the sick who are there, and say to them, 'The kingdom of God is near to you.' 10 Whichever city you enter that does not receive you, go into the streets and say, 11 'Even the dust that sticks to our feet from your city we wipe off against you, but know this: that the kingdom of God is near.' 12 I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom in that day than for that city.

13 "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! Because if the powerful things which happened among you had occurred in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sack-cloth and ashes. 14 But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. 15 And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted up to heaven? You shall be brought down to the grave! 16 The one who hears you hears me, and the one who denies you denies me, and he who denies me denies the one who sent me." 

17 The seventy-two returned, saying with joy, "Lord, the demons are subject to us in your name." 18 And he said to them, "I saw Satan like lightning falling from heaven, 19 and - look - I have given you authority to walk on snakes and scorpions, and on every power of the enemy, and none of you will be injured. 20 But do not rejoice in that the spirits are subject to you; rejoice that your name is written in the heavens."

21 At the same time he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, "I thank you, father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and revealed them to babies. Yes, father, because it was pleasing to you. 22 All of these were given to me by the father, and no one knows who the son is except the father, and who the father is except the son, and the one to whom the son wishes to reveal it."

23 Turning to the disciples he said in private, he said, "Blessed are the eyes which see what you have seen, 24 for I say to you that many prophets and kings want to see what you have seen and they did not see it, and to hear what you have heard, and they did not hear it."

25 Now a certain lawyer stood up to test him, saying, "Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?" 26 He said to him, "What is written in the law? How do you read it?" 27 He answered, "You will love the Lord your God with your entire heart and your entire spirit and with your entire strength and your entire understanding, and love your neighbor as you love yourself." 28 Jesus said to him, "You have answered well. Do this and you will live." 

29 But he wanted to justify himself, and he said to Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?" 30 Jesus replied, "A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell in with robbers, and they disrobed him and beat him and left him half-dead. 31 By chance a priest was going down on that road, and when he saw him he went to the other side of the road. 32 Likewise a Levite when he came to that place and saw him crossed to the other side. 33 But a Samaritan was traveling along and came to him and, seeing him, was deeply moved with pity. 34 He came to him and bound up his wounds and pouring oil and wine on his wounds. He put him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. 35 On the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the inn-keeper and said, 'Take care of him, and whatever else you spend I will give back to you on my return.' 36 Which of these three seems to be the neighbor of the man who fell in with the robbers?" 37 And he said "The one who was merciful with him." Jesus said to him, "Go and do likewise."

38 On their journey he came to a certain village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home. 39 Her sister Mary was there, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. 40 But Martha was distracted by much service, and she went up to him and said, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me alone to serve everyone? Tell her to take a part in it." 41 The Lord answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary, for Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken away from her." 