# LUKE

## 11

1 Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and he finished, and one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples." 2 He said to them, "When you pray, say, 'Father, let you name be holy, let your kingdom come. 3 Give us each day enough bread for the day, 4 and forgive us our sins, for we forgive everyone who owes us. And do not bring temptation upon us.'"

5 He said to them, "Who among you has a friend and goes to him in the middle of the night and says to him, 'Friend, Lend me three loaves, 6 since my friend has finished a journey and I have nothing to set before him,' and he answers from within, 'Do not both me. Already the door is shut, and my children are with me in the bed; I cannot get up and give you anything'? 8 I say to you, if he will not get up and give it to you because he is your friend, he will get up and give you whatever you need so you will leave him alone. 9 For I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be opened to you. 10 For whoever asks, gets it, and whoever seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. 11 Which of you, if your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead? 12 Or if he asks you for an egg, will you give him a scorpion? 13 If therefore you who are evil know to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him."

14 Now he was throwing out a mute spirit, and when the spirit came out the mute spoke, and the crowd was amazed. 15 Some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of demons." 16 Others, testing him, were seeking a sign from heaven about him, 17 but he saw their thoughts and said to them, "Any kingdom divided against itself will become a wilderness, and a house divided against itself will fall. 18 If Satan is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand, because you say that I throw out demons by Beelzebul? 19 If I throw out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do you sons throw them out? Therefore they will be your judges. 20 If I throw out demons by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. 21 When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his possessions are safe. 22 But when one stronger than he attacks him and conquers him, he takes the armor in which he trusted and divides the plunder. 23 He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.

24 "Whenever an unclean spirit comes out of a man, it goes through an arid place seeking rest, and when it does not find it it says, 'I will return to my house which I left.' 25 When he comes he finds it unoccupied, swept clean and set in order. 26 Then it goes and brings seven other spirits, more evil than itself, and they enter those who dwell there, and the last state of the person is worse than the first."

27 As he was speaking, a woman lifted up her voice from the crowd and said to him, "Blessed is the womb which bore you and the breasts at which you suckled!" 28 And he said, "On the other hand, blessed are those who hear the word of God and pay attention to it!"

29 When the crowd assembled, he began to speak: "This generation is an evil generation. It seeks a sign, but a sign will not be given to it except the sign of Jonah. 30 For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so it will be for the son of man to this generation. 31 The queen of the south will rise up in judgment with the men of this generation, and she will condemn them, because she came from the farthest corner of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and - look! - something greater than Solomon is here. 32 The men of Ninevah will stand up in judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the message of Jonah, and - look! - something greater than Jonah is here. 

33 "No one lights a lamp and places it in a vault, nor under a bushel basket, but on a lamp-stand, so that whoever enters will see the light. 34 The light of the body is your eye. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is lit up, but when it is evil, your body is darkness. 35 Therefore watch whether the light within you is darkness. 36 If therefore your whole body is lit up, and no part of you is darkened, it will be completely bright, as when a lamp gives light with its rays."

37 While he was speaking a Pharisee asked him to eat with him, so he went in and sat down. 38 The Pharisee saw and was amazed that he did not first wash before dinner. 39 The Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees wash the outside of the cup and the dish, but your inside is full of greed and evil. 40 Thoughtless ones, did he who made the outside not make the inside as well? 41 But give as alms those things which are within, and everything will be pure for you.

42 "But woe to you, Pharisees, because you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and you pass over the judgment and love of God. These things are necessary to do and not to neglect.

43 "Woe to you, Pharisees, because you love the seat of honor in the synagogue and greetings in the marketplace. 44 Woe to you, because you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them and do not know it."

45 One of the lawyers said to him, "Teacher, when you say these things, you also mistreat us." 46 But he said, "Woe also to you lawyers, because you load up people with an unbearable burden, and you do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. 47 Woe to you, because you build the tombs of the prophets that your fathers killed. 48 You are witnesses and you approve of what your fathers did, because they killed the prophets, and you build the tombs. 49 This is why the wisdom of God said, 'I sent to you prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,' 50 so that the blood from all of the prophets, poured out from the establishment of the world will be accused against this generation. 51 From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I say to you, this generation will be accused. 52 Woe to you lawyers, because take the key of knowledge. You did not enter it yourselves, and you stopped others from entering."

53 When he came out of that place the scribes and Pharisees began to press against him and to provoke him to speak about many things, 54 lying in wait for him, to catch him in a trap with something he said.