# LUKE

## 13

1 Some who were there at that time were bringing news to him concerning the Galileans whose blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices. 2 And he said to them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered these things? 3 No, I say to you, but if you do not repent all of you will be killed in the same way. 4 Or the eighteen on whom the tower fell in Siloam and they were killed: do you think that they were more indebted than all the others living in Jerusalem? 5 No, I say to you, but if you do not repent all of you will be killed as they were."

6 But he told this parable: "A man had a fig-tree planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit from it, and he did not find any. 7 And he said to the vineyard worker, 'Look, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig-tree, and I have not found it. Cut it down. Why should waste space? 8 But the worker said to him, 'Lord, leave it for this year, until I dig around it and I put down manure. And if it bears fruit it is better, otherwise, you can cut it down.'"

10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, 11 and behold, a woman was there who had had a spirit of weakness for eighteen years. She was stooped over and was not able to stand up straight. 12 When Jesus saw her and he called to her and said, "Woman, you are freed from your weakness," 13 and he put his hands on her, and immediately she was restored, and he gave glory to God. But the leader of the synagogue, irritated that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the crowd, "There are six days in which it is necessary to do this; on those days come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath." 15 The Lord answered him, "Hypocrites, does not each of you untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to give it water? 16 But this is a daughter of Abraham, who Satan has tied up for eighteen years, and it is not necessary to free her from her chains on this day of the Sabbath?" 17 When he said these things, all his enemies were put to shame, and the whole crowd rejoiced at all the glorious things which he had done.

18 Therefore he said, "What is the kingdom of God like, and to what will I compare it? 19 It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and placed in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of heaven nested in its branches."

20 Again he said, "To what will I compare the kingdom of God? 21 It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three amounts of flour until the entire thing was leavened."

22 He went through cities and villages teaching and walking along to Jerusalem. 23 And someone said to him, "Lord, will the saved be few?" And he said to them, "Strive to enter through the narrow door, 24 because many - I tell you - seek to enter and not be able. 25 When the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside knock on the door, saying, 'Lord, open to us,' and he will respond and say to you, 'I do not know where you came from.' 26 Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drink in front of you, and you taught in our streets.' 27 And he will say, 'I do not know where you came from. Get away from me, you doers of evil!' 28 And in that place there will be weeping and grinding of teeth, when you will see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all of the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you are thrown out. In that place there will be people from east and west, and from north and south, sitting at the table in the kingdom of God. 30 And - look! - the last will be first and the first will be last."

31 At that hour some of the Pharisees came up and said to him, "Leave, and get away from here, for Herod wants you dead." 32 He said to them, "Go and say to that fox, 'Look, I am throwing out demons and performing healings today and tomorrow, but on the third day I will finish. 33 But today and tomorrow and the following day I must go on my way, because it is not possible that a prophet will die outside of Jerusalem.' 34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills its prophets and stones the one who is sent to her, how often would I have wished to gather your children as a hen gathers its chicks under its wings, and you were not willing. 35 Look, your house is forsaken. I tell you, you will not see me until you have said, 'Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.'"