# LUKE

## 15

1 All of the tax collectors and sinners were coming near to hear him, 2 and the Pharisees and the scribes were muttering, "This man receives sinners and eats with them." 3 But he told them this parable: 4 "Who among you, having a hundred sheep and having lost one of them, does not leave behind the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the lost one until he finds it? 5 And when he finds it, he places it on his shoulder and rejoices, 6 and goes to his house and calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, 'Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep which was lost.' I say to you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one repentant sinner than over ninety-nine righteous people who have no need of repentance. 

8 "A woman had ten drachmas, and if she loses one drachma, does she not light a lamp and sweep the house clean and look for it anxiously until she finds it? 9 And finding it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost.' 10 In the same way, I tell you, there is rejoicing before the angels of God for one sinner who repents.

11 And he said, "A man had two sons, 12 and the younger one said to the father, 'Father, give me the share of property which belongs to me.' And he divided his wealth between them. 13 After many days, the younger son gathered everything together and went abroad to a far country, and in that place he scattered his money living wastefully. 14 When he used up everything, a terrible famine arose in that country, and he began to be needy. 15 And he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, 16 who sent him to his fields to feed pigs, and he longed to fill himself with the pods the pigs ate, but no one gave him any. 

17 "But when he came to himself, he said, 'How many of my father's hired hands have more than enough bread, and here I am dying of famine. 18 I will get up and go to my father and I will say to him, "Father, I have since against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son. 19 Make me as one of your hired hands."' 20 And he rose up and went to his father. 

"While he still a long way off, his father saw him and was deeply moved and ran and hugged him and kissed him. 21 But the son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired hands.' 22 But the father said to his servants, 'Quickly, bring out the best robe and dress him in it, and put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet, 23 and bring the fat calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and now lived again, he was lost and now he is found.'

25 "His older son was in the field, and as he was coming near the house, he heard music and dancing, 26 and he called to one of the servants and asked what these was happening. 27 But he said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fat calf, because he has him back safe and sound.' But he became angry and did not want to go inside.

28 "And his father came out and called him over, 29 and he said to his father, 'Look, how many years have I slaved for you and not once have I side-stepped your command, and you did not even give me a goat so that I could celebrate with my friends. 30 But when this son of yours who devoured your estate with whores has come, you have killed the fat calf for him.' 31 And he said to him, 'Child, you are always with me, and everything which is mine is yours. It was necessary to celebrate and be glad, 32 because this brother of yours which was dead also lives, and the one who was lost is found."