# LUKE

## 19

1 He entered Jericho and was passing through. 2 And there was a man named Zaccheus: he was the head tax-collector and he was rich. 3 He was trying to see who Jesus was, and he was not able on account of the crowd, because he was small in stature. 4 So he ran on ahead of them and went up into a sycamore tree so that he could see him, because he was about to pass through that place. 5 And as Jesus came to the spot, he looked up and said to him, "Zaccheus, hurry up and come down, for I need to stay in your house today." 6 So he hurried and came down, and he welcomed him in joyfully. 7 When everyone saw this, they were murmuring, saying, "He has gone in to lodge with a sinful man." 8 And Zaccheus stood up and said to the Lord, "Look - half of my possessions, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I have cheated anyone out of anything, I will repay them four times as much." 9 Jesus said to him, "Today, salvation has happened in this house, since he is also a son of Abraham. 10 For the son of man came to look for and to save the lost."

11 As they heard these things, he continued and told a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was about to appear right away. 12 Therefore he said, "An aristocrat went into a far country to acquire a kingdom and then return. 13 He called his ten servants and gave them ten minas and said to them, 'Make deals until I come.' 14 His citizens hated him, and he sent off a delegation ahead of him, saying, 'We do not want this man to rule over us.' 15 When he returned, having taken a kingdom, he said to call those servants to him to whom he had given the money, so that he may know what deals they had made. 16 The first came before him and said, 'Lord, your minas have earned ten more.' 17 He said to him, 'Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful in the smallest things, you will have power over ten cities.' 18 The second came and said, 'Your minas, lord, have earned five more.' 19 And he said to this servant, 'And you are to be over five cities.' 20 The other one came saying, 'Lord, here is your mina, which I have held store away in a handkerchief, 21 for I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man: you take where you did not deposit and reap where you did not sow.' 22 He said to him, 'I condemn you from your own mouth, evil servant: did you know that I am a harsh man, taking where I do not deposit and reaping where I do not sow? 23 Why did you not give my money to a bank? And when I came I at least could have taken it back with interest.' 24 And to those who were present he said, 'Take from him the mina and give it to the one who has ten,' and they said to him, 'Lord, but he has ten minas!' 26 I say to you that it will be given to the one who has, and from the one who does not have, even what he as will be taken away. 27 But as for these enemies of mine that do not want me to rule over them, bring them here and slaughter them in front of me." 

28 When he said these things, he went on ahead up to Jerusalem. 29 When he came near to Bethphage and Bethany to the hill called Olives, he sent two of his disciples, 30 saying, "Go into the village in front of you. When you go into it, you will find a colt tied up, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it. 31 And if anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?', say this to them, 'The Lord needs it.'" 32 And those he sent away went out and found that it was just as he said. 33 When they untied the colt, its owners said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?" 34 But they said, "The Lord needs it." 35 And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt they put Jesus upon it.

35 As he went along, they spread their cloaks on the road, 37 and when he came near - already coming down the Mount of Olives - the whole mass of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God in a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, 38 saying:

> Blessed is the one who comes,
> the king, in the name of the Lord!
> Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!

39 And some of the Pharisees spoke to him from out of the crowd, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!" 40 But he answered, "I say to you, if they are silent, the rocks will shout." 

41 And as he came near and saw the city, he wept for it, 42 saying, "If only on this day you, even you, knew the things which bring about peace, but now it has been hidden from your eyes, 43 because days will come for you when your enemies put in a barrier, and they will encircle you and press in on you from all sides, 44 and they will flatten you - you and your children within you. And they will not leave a stone on top of a stone in you, because you did not know the proper time of your visitation."

45 Going into the temple, he began to throw out the sellers, 46 saying to them, "It is written, 'My house will be a house of prayer,' but you have made it a robbers' cave.'"

47 And he was teaching each day in the temple, but the high-priests and the scribes and top citizens were seeking to kill him, 48 but they did not find anything that they could do, for all of the people were hanging on to what he was saying.