# MARK

## 2

1 When he came into Capernaum, it was heard after a few days that he was in the house. 2 Many people were gathered together so that they could no longer any space, not even at the door. 3 And some people came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. 4 Since they were unable to bring him in because of the crowd, they took off the roof which was above Jesus, and when they had made a gap, the paralytic was laid down. 5 Jesus saw their faith and said to the paralytic, "Child, your sins are forgiven." 6 Some of the scribes were there sitting, and they thought to themselves, 7 "Why does he talk this way? He blasphemes, for who is able to forgive sins except God alone?" 8 Jesus recognized in his spirit that they were thinking this, and he said to them, "Why do you think this in your hearts? 9 What is easier? To say the paralytic, 'Your sins are forgiven', or to say, 'Arise, pick up your bed and walk'? 10 But so that you may see that the son of man has power to forgive sins on earth," he said to the paralytic, 11 "I say to you, arise, pick up your bed and go to your house." 12 And he arose and immediately picked up his bed and he went out in front of everyone, so that everyone was amazed and glorified God, saying, "We never saw anything like this!"

13 Again he went out to the sea, and the entire crowd went to him, and he taught them. 14 As he went along, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, "Follow me," and Levi got up and followed him. 15 As he was sitting at the table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners sat with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many of them who followed him. 15 And the scribes and the Pharisees saw that was eating with sinners and tax collectors, and they said to his disciples, "Why does he eat with sinners and tax collectors?" 17 Jesus heard this and said to them, "Healthy people have no need of a doctor, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but the sinners." 

18 And the the Pharisees and the disciples of John were fasting, and they came to him and said, "Why do John's disciples and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?" 19 Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests fast while the bridge-groom is with them? As long as the bridge-groom is with them, they cannot fast. 20 But the day will come when the bride-groom will be taken away from them, and at that time they will fast. 21 No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on old clothes. If he does, the patch pulls away from it, the new from the old, and the whole is made worse. 22 And no one puts new wine in old wine-skins. If he does, the wine will burst the wine-skins, and the wine and the wine-skins will be ruined. But new wine is for new wine-skins."

23 One Sabbath it happened that he was cutting through the grain fields, and his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. 24 And the Pharisees said to him, "Isn't what they are doing forbidden on the Sabbath?" 25 He said to them, "Have you not read what David and those who were with him did when they were in need and hungry? 26 He entered into the house of God in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and he ate the bread of the Presence, which only the priests are permitted to eat, and he gave it to those who were with him." 27 He said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, and not the other way around, 28 so the son of man is lord even of the Sabbath.