# MARK

## 5

1 They went to the other side of the sea, to the region of Galilee. 2 When Jesus left the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit met him from out of the tombs. 3 He had lived among the tombs, and no one could tie him anymore, not even with a chain. 4 Many times he was bound with shackles, but tore the chains apart and shattered the shackles. No one was strong enough to tie him up. 5 And every night and day he was in the tombs and in the hills, shouting and cutting himself with a rock. 6 When Jesus saw him a long way off, the man ran to him and fell down before him, 7 and crying out with a loud voice, he said, "Who am I to you, Jesus, son of the highest God? Swear by God, do not torture me!" 8 He said to him, "Unclean spirit, come out from this man!" 9 He said to it, "What is your name?" And it said to him, "My name is Legion, for we are many." 10 And he begged him many times not to send them out of the country. 11 Near the road there was a great herd of pigs being tended, 12 and he begged Jesus, "Send us into the pigs, so that we can enter them." 13 He allowed them, and the unclean spirits left the man and entered the pigs, and the herd - numbering two thousand - stampeded down the ledge and into the sea, and they drowned in the sea. 14 The pig herders fled fled into the city and the fields and told everyone, and they came to see what had happened. 15 They came to Jesus, and they saw the man who had been possessed sitting, clothed and sane, the one who had a legion of demons, and they were afraid. 16 Those who saw what had happened with the possessed man and the pigs explained everything in detail, 17 and they began to beg him to leave their borders. 18 As he was getting into the boat, the possessed man asked him if he could come with him. 19 Jesus did not send him away, but he said to him, "Go to your house and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how great of a mercy you have received." 20 He left and he began to tell everyone in the Decapolis how much Jesus did for him, and everyone was amazed.

21 Again Jesus went over to the other side in a boat, and a great crowd gathered for him, and they were alongside the sea. 22 One of the heads of the synagogue, named Jairus, came to him, 23 and see him, fell down in front of his feet and begged him, "My daughter is near death, but come and place your hands on her, and she will be saved and she will live." 24 Jesus departed with him, and a great crowd followed him, and they crowded around him tightly.

25 And a certain woman had been hemorrhaging for twelve years, 26 and she had suffered terribly under many doctors. She spent everything she had, and no one was able to make it better; she only became worse. 27 When she heard about Jesus, she came into the back of the crowd and touched his clothes, 28 for she said, "If I can only touch his clothes, I will be saved." 29 Immediately her blood-flow dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed from the disease, 30 and right away Jesus knew that power had gone out of him, and he turned around among the crowd, and said, "Who touched my clothes?" 31 But his disciples said to him, "Do you not see the crowd squeezing in together, and yet you say, 'Who has touched me'?" 32 He looked around to see who had done it, 33 but the woman was afraid and trembled, knowing what had happened to her, but came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. 34 He said to her, "Daughter, your faith has saved you. Go in peace, and be free of your disease."

35 While he was still talking to her, a man came to him from the leader of the synagogue's house and said, "Your daughter has died. Why do you still annoy the teacher?" 36 But Jesus overheard what was said, and he said to the leader, "Do not be afraid, just believe. 37 And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John, James's brother, 38 and when they came to the house of the leader, Jesus noticed a great noise and much wailing and crying, 39 and when he entered he said to them, "Why are you being so loud and weeping? The little girl is not death, but asleep." 40 And they made fun of him. Throwing out everyone he took the child's father and mother and those who were with him, and they went in where the little girl was. 41 Taking the hand of the child, he said to her, "Talitha, cumi" - which means "little girl, I say to you, get up." 42 Immediately the little girl got up and walked, for she was twelve years old, and at once they were amazed and astonished. 43 But he ordered them not to let anyone know what had happened, and he said to give her something to eat. 