# MARK

## 6

1 He left that place, and he came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him. 2 When the Sabbath arrived, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many heard him and were baffled, saying, "Where did he get these things? What wisom was given to him, and how are such powerful works done by his hand? 3 Is this not the construction worker, the son of Mary and the brother of James and John and Judas and Simon? Are not his sisters with us nearby?" And they were offended by him. 4 Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not dishonored, except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his household." 5 And he could not do any great works there, except for laying hands on a few people and healing them. 6 He was amazed by their unbelief. And he went around the villages teaching.

7 He called the twelve over, and he began to send them out, two by two, and gave them power over unclean spirits, 8 and he charged them not to take anything on their journey, except a staff; not bread, or a wallet, or money for their belts, 9 but to tie on sandals, and not to wear two cloaks. 10 And he said to them, "If you enter any house, remain there until you leave that place. 11 And if any place does not receive you, or hear you, leave there and shake the dust off your feet as a witness against them." 12 So they went out and preached so that the people would repent, 13 and they cast out many demons, and they anointed many sick people with oil and healed them.

14 King Herod heard the new, for the name of Jesus had become known. Some said that John the Baptist had arisen from the dead. That is why these powers are at work in him. 15 But others said that he was Elijah, and still others said that he was a prophet, like the old prophets. 16 When Herod heard this, he said, "I beheaded John, but he has risen." 17 For he sent for and seized John and tied him up in jail because of Herodias his wife and Philip his brother. 18 For John said to Herod, "It is not permissible for you to have your brother's wife." 19 For Herodias held a grudge and wanted him to kill John, but she could not, 20 because Herod was afraid of John, thinking of him as a just and holy man, and he kept John safe. When he heard him, he was puzzled, but he was pleased to hear him anyway. 

21 The opportunity for Herodias came when Herod threw a party on his birthday for his magistrates, and his generals, and the leaders of Galilee, 22 and the daughter of Herodias came to him and danced, and her dancing pleased Herod and his guests. The king said to the girl, "Tell me what you want, and I will give it to you." 23 And he swore to her, "Whatever you want I will give you, up to half my kingdom." 24 When she left, he said to her mother, "What should I ask for?" Her mother said, "The head of John the Baptist." 25 Immediately she went quickly to the king and asked him, "I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter, right away." 26 The king became very sad because of what he had sworn and because of the guests, but he did not wish to break his word to her. 27 Immediately the king sent his bodyguard and ordered him to bring John's head, and the bodyguard left and cut off the head of John the Baptist in the prison, 28 and he brought John's head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl it to her mother. 29 When John's disciples heard what happened, they came and picked up his body and placed it in a tomb.

30 But the apostles returned to Jesus and told him about all that they had done and all the things they had taught. 31 He said to them, "Go alone to a wilderness and rest a while." For many people were coming and going, and they could not find a break to eat. 32 They went away in a boat to the wilderness by themselves. 33 They saw them coming and many recognized them, and from all the towns, they ran there on foot and came to them. 34 Coming out, Jesus saw the great crowd and he was deeply moved because of them because they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them. 35 It was already late in the day, and the disciples came to him and said, "This place is a wilderness, and it is already getting late. 36 Let them go, so that they can go to the fields and the villages and buy themselves something to eat." 37 He answered them, "Give them something to eat." And they said to him, "Should we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?" 38 He said to them, "How much bread do you have? Go and see." When they found out, they said to him, "Five loaves, and two fish." 39 He directed them to sit down in groups on the pale-green grass. 40 So they sat down in groups of a fifty or a hundred, 41 and taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he blessed them and broke the bread and gave it to the disciples so that they could offer them to the people, and he divided up the two fish among them all. 42 And everyone ate and was stuffed. 43 There were twelve full baskets of broken pieces and fish, 44 and those who ate the bread was five thousand men.

45 Immediately he brought his disciples along to embark in a boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he send the crowd off. 46 Saying goodbye to them, he went to the mountain to pray. 47 As it became evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he alone was on the land. 48 He saw that they were struggling to push through, for the wind was against them. At the fourth watch of the night, he came to them, walking on the sea, and he wanted to pass by them, 49 but they saw him walking on the sea and thought that he was a ghost, and they screamed, 50 for they all saw him and were disturbed. Right away he spoke to them and said, "Take heart! It is me, do not be afraid." 51 He came to them and went into the boat, and the wind settled down. 52 They were completely amazed, for they did not understand about the loaves, because their hearts were calloused.

53 When they had crossed over, they anchored at Gennesaret. 54 When they came out of the boat, the people recognized Jesus, 55 and they ran from the entire region and began to bring the sick on their beds to where they heard he was. 56 Wherever he went, to villages or cities or fields, they laid down the sick and called to him so that they could touch the hem of his clothes, and whoever touched him was saved.