# MARK

## 7

1 The Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together and went from Jerusalem, 2 and when they saw some of Jesus's disciples ate their bread with unsanctified hands - that is, they were not washed 3 (for the Pharisees and all the Judeans do not eat without washing their hands, holding onto the tradition of their elders. 4 And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash up, and there are many other things they observe which have been passed down, such as washing their cups and stoneware and copper pots.) 5 And the Pharisees and scribes said to him, "Why do your disciples not participate in the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unsanctified hands?" 6 He said to them, "Isaiah prophesied accurately about you hypocrites, as it is written that:

> This people honor me with their lips, 
> but their hearts are far away from me.
> 7 They worship me in vain,
> teaching as established truths the commandments of men.

8 "You leave behind on the command of God and cling to the tradition of men." 9 He said to them, "Well done, you have broken the command of God, so that your tradition is protected. 10 For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother', and 'Let whoever insults his father or mother die.' 11 But you say, 'If a man says to his mother or father, "whatever you have gained from me is Korban"' (that is, the given to God), 12 then you no longer let him do anything for his mother or father, 13 and canceling the word of God is the tradition which you have passed down. And you do this many times."

14 Again he called the crowd and said to them, "Hear and understand, all of you. 15 Nothing which goes into a man from the outside is able to defile him, but the things which come out of a man defile him." 17 And when he left the crowd and entered a house, his disciples asked him about the parable. 18 He said to them, "Do you also not understand this? Do you not understand that everything that enters a man does not have the power to defile him, 19 because that which it does not enter the heart but the stomach, and it is expelled into the toilet." (So all foods are clean.) 20 He said, "The things that come out of a man defile him, 21 for out of the heart of men come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, stealing, murder, 22 adultery, greed, evil, deceit, licentiousness, envy, blasphemy, arrogance and thoughtlessness. 23 All these evil things come from within and defile men.

24 From there he left and went up to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house, not wanting anyone to know about it, but he was not able to stay hidden. 25 But immediately a woman, whose daughter had an unclean spirit, heard about him, and she came fell down before his feet. 26 The woman was Greek, Syrophoenician by birth, and she asked him to to expel the demon from her daughter. 27 He said to her, "First allow the children to be satisfied, for it is not good to take the bread of the children and throw it to the dogs." 28 She answered him, "Yes, Lord, and the dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs." 29 He said to her, "Because of what you said, you may go, the demon has left your daughter." 30 Returning to her house, she found the child lying on the bed and the demon gone.

31 Again he came out of the region of Tire and he came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Decapolis. 32 They brought to him a man who was deaf and could not speak, and they called him over so that he could place his hand on him. 33 Taking him away from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears and, after spitting, touched his tongue. 34 Looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, "Ephaphtha" (that is, "Be opened"), 35 and his ears were opened, and he was no longer tongue-tied, and he spoke clearly. 36 He gave them orders not to tell anyone, but the more he told them, even more of them spread the news. 37 And they were overflowing with amazement, saying, "He has done all these things well; he even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak."