# MARK

## 10

1 He left there and came to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan, and again a crowd assembled near him, and was his habit, he taught them. 2 And the Pharisees came to him and asked if it is permissible for a man to divorce his wife (they were testing him). 3 He answered them, "What did Moses command you?" 4 They said, "Moses permitted a man to write a bill of divorce and send her off." 5 Jesus said to them, "He wrote this command for you because of your hardness of heart, 6 but from the beginning of creation, he made them male and female, 7 and because of this a man will leave his father and mother, and the two will be one flesh, so that they are no longer two but one flesh. 9 Therefore what God has tied together in marriage, let no man separate." 10 When he was again in the house, the disciples asked him about this. 11 He said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife  and marries another commits adultery with her, 12 and whoever divorces her husband and marries another commits adultery."

13 They brought to him a children so he could touch them, but the disciples rebuked them. 14 When Jesus saw this, he was very irritated and said to them, "Allow the children to come to me, and do not prevent them, for the kingdom of God is for such people. 15 I tell you the truth, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child, does not enter into it. 16 And he took them in his arms and blessed them, placing his hands on them.

17 As he was leaving, a man ran to him on the way and bowed his knee before him and asked him, "Good teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life?" 18 Jesus said to him, "Why do you say that I am good? No one is good except for God. 19 You know the commandments: do not kill, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not cheat, honor your father and mother." 20 He said, "Teacher, all of these I have observed from my youth." 21 Jesus looked into him and love him. And he said, "One thing you do not have: go and sell everything you have and give it to beggars, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come here and follow me." 22 He was disappointed by this teaching, and he went away grieved, for he had many possessions.

23 Jesus looked around and said to him disciples, "How hard it will be for those who have property to enter into the kingdom of God!" 24 The disciples were amazed at what he said. Jesus again said to them, "Children, how hard it is to enter into the kingdom of God! 25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of the needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God." 26 They were completely puzzled and said to him, "And who is able to be saved?" 27 Jesus looked into them and said, "For people it is impossible, but not for God. For all things are possible for God." 28 Peter began to speak to him, "Look, we got rid of everything and followed you." 29 Jesus said, "I tell you the truth, no one who left home, or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or farms - because of me and because of the gospel - 30 who will not receive a hundred times over, in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and farms, with oppression, and in the age to come eternal life. 31 But many who are first will be last and the last will be first.

32 They were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was leading them, and they were baffled, and his followers were afraid. Again he came alongside the twelve and began to them what was about to happen to him, 33 "Look - we are going up to Jerusalem, and the son of man will be given over to the high priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the outsiders, 34 and they will mock him and spit on him and whip him and kill him, and after three days he will rise again."

35 James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came to him and said, "teacher, we want you to do whatever we ask." 36 He said to them, "What do you want me to do?" 37 They said to him, "Allow us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory." 38 Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you ask: are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or with the baptism that I will be baptized with?" 39 They said to him, "We are able." Jesus said to them, "The cup I drink you will drink, and the baptism which I receive will be given to you, 40 but to sit at my right hand and left is not for me to give, but it is for those who are prepared." 41 The ten heard this and became very irritated with James and John. 42 Summoning them, Jesus said to them, "You know that the ones considered rulers of the outsiders dominate them, and their leaders rule over them, 43 but it is not like that among you. But whoever wants to become great among you, he will be a servant, 44 and whoever wants to be first, will be the slave to all, 45 for the son of man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many."

46 They came to Jericho. As he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar and the son of Timaeus, was sitting on the road. 47 When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to shout and say, "Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me!" 48 Many of them rebuked him to be quiet, but he shouted even louder, "Son of David, have mercy on me!" 49 Jesus stopped and said, "Call him," and they called the blind man, saying, "Cheer up! Get up; he has called you." 50 He threw off his cloak and jumped up and came to Jesus, 51 and Jesus said to him, "What do you want me to do?" And the blind man said to him, "Rabbi, I want to be able to see." 52 Jesus said to him, "Come, your faith has saved you." And immediately he could see, and he followed Jesus on the road.