# MARK

## 11

1 And when they approached Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, and to the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, 2 and said to him, "Go to the town in front of you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt tied up that has not yet been ridden by anyone; untie it and bring it. 3 If anyone says to you, 'Why are you doing this?', say to them, "The Lord needs it, and will send it back here right away." 4 They went and found the colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it. 5 And some of the one who were standing there said to them, "What are you doing untying that colt?" 6 They said to them just as Jesus had told them to, and they let them go. 7 They brought the colt to Jesus, and they threw their cloaks on it, and he sat down on the colt. 8 And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spreads leafy branches they had cut down in the fields. 9 The ones who were going in front of him and behind him shouted, Hosanna,

> Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
> 10 Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David,
> Hosanna in the highest!

11 He came to the temple at Jerusalem, and when he looked at around at everything, he saw that it was already late, and he went out to Bethany with the twelve.

12 The next day, when they left Bethany, he was hungry. 13 He saw a leafy fig tree a long way off, and he went to to see if he could find anything on it. Coming to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not fig season. 14 He said to the tree, "Let no one ever eat fruit from you ever." The disciples heard it.

15 And he came to Jerusalem. Entering the temple, he began to throw out those who bought and sold in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the chairs of the dove dealers, 16 and he did not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple, 17 and he taught them and said, "Is it not written, 'My house will be called a house of prayer for all people?' But you have made it a robbers' cave." 18 The high priest and the scribes heard him, and and they sought how they could kill him, because they were afraid of him, for the entire crowd was amazed at his teaching. 19 And when it became late, they went out of the city.

20 As they went along in the morning, he saw the fig-tree withered down to the roots. 21 Peter remembered what happened, and said to him, "Rabbi - look! - this tree you cursed has dried up." 22 Jesus answered and said to them, "Have the faith in God. 23 Truly I say to you that anyone who says to this mountain, 'Be lifted up and thrown into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he said will happen, it will happen for him. 24 Because of this I say to you, whatever you ask for in prayer, and believe that you will have it, it will be yours. 25 And whenever you stand praying, forgive whatever you have against someone, so that your father who is in heaven will forgive your mistakes.

27 Again they came to Jerusalem. As they walked into the temple, the high-priests and the scribes and the elders came to him 28 and said to him, "By what authority do you do these things? 29 Or who gave you this power so that you can do these things?" 29 Jesus said to them, "I will ask you one question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things: 30 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me." 31 They debated among themselves, saying, "If we say from heaven, he will say, 'Why then did you not believe him.' 32 But if we say from man..." They feared the crowd, for they all held that John was a prophet. 33 They answered Jesus and said, "We do not know." Jesus said to them, "And I will not tell you by what authority I do these things."