# MARK

## 13

1 As he left the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Teacher - look! - such wonderful stones and wonderful buildings!" 2 Jesus said to him, "Do you see these great buildings? There will not be one stone standing on another that will not be destroyed.

3 As he sat on the Mount of Olives across from the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him in private, 4 "Tell us when these things will be, and what will occur when all these things are about to be accomplished?" 5 Jesus began to speak to them, "Watch out so that you are not misled. 6 Many will come in my naming, saying, 'I am he', and many will be deceived. 7 When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be concerned. It has to happen, but it is not yet the end. 8 For nation will rise up against nation and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes many places, there will be famine. These things are the beginning of the birth pains. 9 Watch out for yourself, they will give you over to the counsel and you will be beaten in the synagogues and you will be set before rulers and kings before of my as a witness to them. 10 The gospel must first be announced to every nation, 11 and whenever they give you over and bring you to trial, do not worry about what you will say, but say whatever is given to you at that moment, for you are not the one speaking, but the Holy Spirit. 12 Brother will fatally betray brother, and a father his child, and children will rise up against their parents and kill them, 13 and you will be hated by all because of my name. But he who stands his ground to the end will be saved.

14 "When you see the idol of desolation standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then those who are in Judea, let them flee to the mountains. 15 Let whoever is on the roof not come down, nor enter in to take anything from out of the house. 16 Let him who is in the field not turn around to take his cloak. 17 Woe to those who are pregnant and nursing in those days! 18 Pray that it will not occur in winter. 20 And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no flesh would be saved. But because he set apart chosen ones, he has cut short the days. 21 Then if anyone says to you, 'Look here, the Christ!' or 'There is is!', do not believe them. 22 For false christs and false prophets will rise up will give signs and wonders to lead astray - if possible - the chosen ones. 23 Beware: I have told you all of these things beforehand.

24 "But in the days after the troubles, the son will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, 25 and the stars will fall out of the sky, and the powers which are in the sky will be shaken. 26 And then they will see the son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory, 27 and then he will send the angels and he will bring together his chosen ones from the four winds, from the farthest part of the earth to the farthest part of the heavens.

28 "Learn from the parable of the fig-tree: when the branch already becomes tender and produces leaves, know that the harvest is near. 29 Likewise for you, when you see these things happening, you will know that he is near, at the gates. 30 Truly I say to you that this generation will not pass by before these things happen. 31 The heavens and the earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 32 Concerning the days or the hours no one knows, neither the angels in heaven nor the son, except the father. 33 Watch out and stay awake, for you do not know when the time is. 34 It is like a man going on a journey who leaves his house and gives his authority to his servants, to each person an assignment, and he commands the door-keeper to be alert. 35 Therefore be alert, for you do not know when the lord of the house is coming, whether evening, or midnight, or at the rooster's crow, or early, 36 or else he may come suddenly and find you sleeping. 37 What I say to you I say to all: be alert."