# MARK

## 15

1 Immediately the high priests plotted with the elders and the scribes and all of the Sanhedrin, and they bound Jesus and took him away and gave him to Pilate. 2 Pilate asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" He answered him, "You are saying it." 3 And the high priests accused him of many things. 4 Pilate again asked him, "Do you not respond at all? See how many things they have charged you with?" 5 Jesus still did not respond, so that Pilate was amazed. 

6 But because of the feast he was releasing to them one prisoner who they asked for, 7 and among the rebels in the prison who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was one named Barbabbas. 8 The crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. 9 Pilate asked them, "Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?" 10 For he understood that the high priests had handed him over because of jealousy. 11 But the high priests whipped up the crowd that that Pilate would release Barabbas for them. 12 Pilate again asked them ,"What will I do to the one who is called the king of the Jews?" 13 They shouted again, "Crucify him!" 14 Pilate said to them, "What evil has he done?" But they shouted even louder, "Crucify him!" 15 Pilate, wishing to mollify the crowd, released to them Barabbas, and having whipped Jesus, he turned him over to be crucified.

16 The soldiers brought him inside  the courtyard, where the governor's headquarters was, and they called together the entire battalion. 17 They dressed him in a purple cloak and they twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on him, 19 and they began to greet him, "Hail, king of the Jews!" 19 They struck him on the head with a reed and spat on him and bowed before him, 20 and when they mocked him, they took off his purple cloak and put him in his clothes. And they led him out to crucify him. 

21 A man was passing by coming from his field, named Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, and they forced him to carry his cross. 22 And they brought him to Golgotha, which is translated place of the skull. 23 They gave him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. 24 They crucified him and divided up his clothes, throwing dice to decide who would take them. 25 It was the third hour and they crucified him. 26 The inscription of the charge was written, "The king of the Jews." 27 With him they crucified two robbers, one on the right hand and one on the left, 29 and the passers-by blasphemed him, shaking their heads and saying, "You would would tear down the temple and rebuild it in three days, 30 save yourself and come down from the cross." 31 In the same way the high priests mocked him among themselves with the scribes and said, "He has saved others, but he is not able to save himself. 32 Christ, the king of Israel, come down now from that cross, so that we may see and believe," and those who were crucified with him insulted him. 

33 When is became the seventh hour, darkness came over the whole earth until the ninth hour. 34 And in the ninth hour Jesus shouted with a loud voice, "Eloi, eloi, lama sabachthani!", which is translated, "My God, my God, why have you left me behind?" 35 And some of those who were standing there heard it and said ,"Look, he is calling Elijah." 36 And someone ran and filled a sponge with foul wine, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, "Let us see if Elijah will come to take him away." 37 Jesus let out a loud groan and breathed his last. 38 And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to the bottom. 39 Seeing that he had died, a centurion standing opposite Jesus said, "Truly, this man was the son of God." 40 There were women looking at him from a distance, and among them were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the Mother of James the Younger and Joses, and Salome. 41 They followed him when he was in Galilee and they served him, and there were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.

42 When it had already become late, since it was the Day of the Preparation, which is the day before the Sabbath, 43 Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable member of the council, who was also looking for the kingdom of God, dared to go to Pilate and requested the body of Jesus. 44 Pilate was surprised that Jesus had already died, and he summoned the centurion, and asked whether Jesus was already dead. 45 Learning what happened from the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. 46 And he bought a fine cloth and took him down and wrapped him in it, and placed him in a tomb which he had hewn out of rock. 47 Mary Magdalene and Mary the Mother of Joses saw where he was placed.